Activation
=============================

*See also* :doc:`Activity observations <activity_observations>`

*Back to* :doc:`Intertype relations <intertype>`

Introduction
------------

**Activation**, or **activity**, is an :doc:`intertype relation <intertype>` between two people that belong to
opposite poles of all :doc:`basic dichotomies <jungian>` except
for :doc:`extraversion and introversion <extra_intro>`
(e.g. :doc:`SLI <SLI>`, which is :doc:`introverted <introverted>`,
:doc:`sensing <sensing_intuition>`, :doc:`logical <ethics_logic>`, and
:doc:`irrational <ration_irration>`, and :doc:`EII <EII>`, which is
:doc:`introverted <introverted>`, :doc:`intuitive <sensing_intuition>`,
:doc:`ethical <ethics_logic>`, and `rational <ration_irration>`.) Activation partners
belong to the same :doc:`quadra <quadra>` and thus find it comfortable to
let down their guard around each other, making this relationship very
easy to start.

Activation is a very common relationship for friendship. Activation is
similar to :doc:`duality <duality>` in that each person provides those
:doc:`kinds of information <information_aspect>` that the other most
expects, however, the emphasis is always somewhat different than
subconsciously expected. Partners are able to provide each other with an
abundance of useful information and assistance, but lead separate lives
and make decisions based on criteria that don't seem too important to
the other.

Activation partners who become close and discuss their strivings and
personal worldviews often are struck by how radically different they
are, despite the relative ease and benefit of communication. As opposed
to :doc:`duals <duality>`, who tend to strive for the same things but from
differing, though compatible angles, activation partners' approaches to
achieving their goals tend to be fundamentally incompatible, due largely
to the difference in rationality and irrationality. This means that
while activation partners can talk and share their common hobbies with
ease, they tend to view each other as separate entities with separate
lifestyles and plans.

Descriptions by various authors
-------------------------------

**Valentina Meged, Anatoly Ovcharov**

At first the interaction is invigorating. Partners activate each other
in all initiatives and undertakings. They strive to provide mutual
assistance, but joint activity is complicated. When their interests
coincide and become focused on the same goal, the methods for achieving
it don't satisfy both partners. Partners start to make higher demands of
each other. This leads to unnecessary disputes and mutual frustration.
Because cooperation is complicated, each partner ends up having to solve
problems on his own. Emotional exhaustion is a common effect, which is
why partners should periodically increase psychological distance.
Presence of outsiders is beneficial and helps to distract partners from
misunderstandings. Activity partners quickly forgive each other.
Switching attention to something else or stopping communication for some
time normalizes these relations.

**I.D. Vaisband, publications on Socionics**

These are very favorable relations, although not as much as duality.
Partners mutually activate each other, periodically needing rest.
Contrary to the relations of duality, these relations do not have a
trace of jealousy. There is certain tension due to absence of full
compensation. Partners may tire each other out due to different rhythms
of life, since one partner is a rational type while the other one is
irrational.

**O.B. Slinko "The key to heart - Socionics"**

One of the most favorable types of intertype relations are relations of
activity. Leading function of your activator provides information for
your mobilizing function, thus communication with such partner enlivens,
improves mood, fills with enthusiasm, and generally brings pleasure.
These relations are homovert, meaning both partners are either
introverted or extraverted. If both partners are introverts, then this
interaction makes them feel more extraverted i.e. they become more
freely expressive. Activity partners help each other move work projects
along. However, interaction in activity pair cannot last indefinitely;
partners need to periodically distance and rest from each other. It
should not be forgotten that your activity partner is very different
from you, that you may come to disagree with many aspects of his
personality and even become irritated if communication lasts too long.

**R.K. Sedih, "Information psychoanalysis"**

Ego - SuperId. Potential for conflicts is small here as the difference
in interacting functions is quite large (second function is much weaker
than first one). Nevertheless, partners are not inclined to completely
undertake responsibility for each other. Relations between activity
partners can look like a constant demonstration of goodwill and good
qualities. The base function of one partner feeds into mobilizing
function of the other, prompting him or her into action. Periodically
partners grow tired of each other and require separation and rest. One
of my students told me a story about his uncle and aunt of types ILE and
ESE. They were deeply in love with each other, but to take a break from
each other they would completely separate for one day a week. Even this
wasn't enough. These people who called each other "the bane of my heart"
have been through three divorces, which completely baffled their
relatives and friends. Luckily they have never separated for good, but
learned to direct the extra energy into good causes. Both of them built
excellent careers without special effect and done a great deal of social
work. If they knew about Jung's typology they would have avoided many of
the initial problems. It is much easier, for example, to offend your
activity partner than your dual. The strongly categorical creative
function of one is met with much weaker suggestive function of the
other. This is why it is best to tone down categorical judgements and
not waste time on detailed explanations.

**Laima Stankevichyute, "Intertype relations"**

This is a very favorable type of relations, which differs little from
duality, though communication here takes place across all eight elements
of the psyche. Activity partners find common language very easily and
quickly close distance. Since communication here progresses along
ascending line, people who have an activator in their family are more
energetic, active, and organized. Conflicts are rare since in these
types of relations partners usually express their grievances with each
other privately. Sometimes partners may feel mental fatigue but it
quickly passes if they separate for some time.

**A.V. Bukalov, G. Boiko, "Why Saddam Hussein made a mistake, or what is
Socionics"**

If dual relations alleviate energy and mental stress of the partners, in
relations of activity this is not the case - activity partners serve to
mobilize one another. These are relations between two extraverts or two
introverts, one of which is rational and another irrational. Partners
raise overall vitality, but this effect can be too great leading to
tiredness and tension. Assimilation of information is not always full.
There is an overload of vital functions that are not adapted to such
information, thus prolonged communication tires both partners. They have
to increase psychological distance for some time, rest from each other,
after which they will be ready to engage again. This type of relations
is very good for engaging in common activities together. Partners have
the same direction unlike in dual relations, but because partners can
exhaust each other which is not ideal for family relations.

**V.V. Gulenko "Criteria of reciprocity"**

*Hospitable adaptation*

Talking with each other is interesting, but communication is not very
deep. Establishing contact is easy, but breaking it is just as easy as
well. Effort is needed to keep your attention on your activity partner
for longer periods of time. Desire to start discussions is lowered:
after expressing your views conversation adopts a neutral tone. Getting
to know each other closer, partners treat each other on equal footing.
The partner who is accustomed to taking lead lowers his demands. The
partner in lower in rank feels an increase in his communication status.
Because of this effect there is an element of tension present in
communication.

*Binary attributes intertype relations*

In activity relations, it is difficult to maintain the rationality of
joint projects and ventures without which activity pair will fall into
periods of confusion and inconsistent behavior. These relations require
a lot of verbal communication and more open and active displays of
affection, which can significantly exhaust the partners.

These relations are permeated by turbulent emotion. Activity pair
becomes quite scattered and restless. These relations are more suitable
for informal contacts rather than business ones. Emotional
over-activation inhibits logical functions.

These relations have an element of sensory caretaking. However, the
partner that provides the care is expecting same in return or a
submissions to his tastes and wishes. Harmonious activity pair can
cultivate and maintain their space quite well.

The dynamics of activity relations is characterized by a steady increase
of tensions, which leads to violent discharge of emotions. Activity pair
puts all their effort into achieving what both partners desire often not
taking other people's time into account.

Both partners try to accentuate their independence, their individuality
and the ability to achieve one's goals. Over time, activity partners
overload each other, and if measures are not taken to discharge this
load it may lead to an explosion within the relationship. Partners
periodically find themselves thrown back, but then with renewed vigor
they work on restoring the situation.

*Advice for getting along*

Activity partners awaken a lot of emotional energy in each other which
requires an outlet. The stronger the activation, the more people get
involved in the sphere of activities of this pair. Partners should
strive to explain to each other the motives and reasoning of their
actions, otherwise there will be misunderstandings and reproaches. In
this pair one partner typically assumes a caretaker role and demands
emphasized positive attention and special benefits from the other.

Partners should strive to spend some time alone, away from each other,
as too much activation will exhaust them emotionally potentially leading
to nervous breakdown. Remember that due to strong activation effect both
of you may over-dramatize problems in your relationship and make hasty
decisions. In communication it is better to not touch upon serious
topics. These relations are most stable when interaction is light and
pleasant. Try to invite people over to your house, go out to visit
cafes, attend various local events. Allocate more of your time on taking
care of household duties, taking care of children, organizing holidays
and vacations, and so on.

**V.V. Gulenko, A.V. Molodtsev, "Introduction to socionics"**

These are the easiest relations to start. Activity partners do not
experience any difficulties in communication, which is pleasantly
surprising to both. It is as if they warm each other up and encourage
activity in one another. Such interaction is very attractive, especially
given the right subtypes. However, with more time these relations
"overheat" and partners grow tired of constant activation. In this case
it is better to distance. Then it will be safe to return back and
experience intensification once again. Thus, activity relations have a
pulsating character. The pleasure and ease of communication that are
highly prized during leisure times get replaced by problems when
partners join to complete everyday tasks. Here they start to give each
other advice which hits their weak functions, instead of taking up the
workload themselves. This is unpleasant to both. However, overall this
advice is useful and should not be underestimated. The problem is that
no matter how you react, you cannot develop your weak functions much
further.

Another difficulty lies in the fact that activity partners do not
transfer information in the way that is best received by another. One
partner thinks that information is too vague and hazy, to the other it
seem too crude, shallow, and grounded. This is explained by the
rationality-irrationality differences. However, the overall content of
information is still acceptable to both.

Activity relations are not very well suited for everyday or workday
interaction because they don't encourage optimal vitality. They are best
for holidays and spending leisure time together. Two dual dyads upon
meeting each other can experience mobilization due to presence of their
activity partners in the other dyad, which creates a festive atmosphere.
Taking on common tasks is difficult due to unreliability and
unpredictability of activity partner. Each partner may act in a way
that's best for him or her without taking the other into consideration.
Effectively partners cannot fully rely on each other at any time. Term
"activation" is more applicable to a pair of introverts. Extraverted
pairs instead experience a soothing effect and greater introversion.

**Ekaterina Filatova, "Art of understanding yourself and others"**

These relations are quite favorable, though not as much as duality
relations, since here strong creative function of one partner activates
weak suggestive function of the other.

These relations are symmetric, but lack full compensation. Partners
periodically grow tired of each other due to difference in rhythms of
life, since one partner is rational and the other irrational.

**Eugene Gorenko, Vladimir Tolstikov, "Nature of self"**

Typically these relations keep both partners in elated, excited mood.
Communication is energetic and leaves a vivid impression. Partners get
along especially well if they have a common task.

**Sergei Ganin**

*Homoverted - Symmetrical - Arrhythmical*

These relations are the easiest and quickest to start. Activity partners
do not experience any visual difficulties when starting relations which
can be surprising to them at the beginning. Partners stimulate each
other into activity. Interaction with an Activity partner becomes really
satisfying especially if both partners feel a mutual attraction.
However, with continuous interaction over a long period comes
overactivation which normally results in an overall tiredness of each
other (a good example is when you watch a comedy that is so funny that
after half the film you do not have the energy to laugh anymore). When
this happens Activity partners need a short rest from each other, after
which they can enjoy a positive interaction once again. This pattern
repeats itself giving these relations an oscillating character. If
partners cannot take a break from each other, it can cause negative
stimulation to take the place of positive.

Although overall interaction between partners is nice and easy, when it
comes to fulfilling everyday duties and matters together, partners
usually meet with many problems. Instead of solving the problems,
Activity partners tend to give advice to each other on how to solve
these problems, often affecting each others weak points. The advice of
an Activity partner is always useful as it can strengthen your weakness,
but not so much that it will ever become your strength.

The other problem with these relations is that information between
Activity partners always needs some adjustments. One partner may think
of it as too foggy and not concrete enough, whereas for the other
partner it is too unrefined. Collaboration is also difficult, because
partners cannot predict each others behavior and actions in what seem to
be ordinary situations. Because of this, partners cannot rely or count
on each other in full. Most of the problems that arise during Activity
relationships are because one partner is always Perceiving and the other
is always Judging, meaning that they live in different life rhythms.

These relations are excellent for leisure, but not for day to day
activities. When two Duality pairs gather together (forming a complete
Quadrable) they experience a feeling of elation. The reason for this is
that when two Duality pairs interact with each other, the two introverts
(one from each Duality pair) and the two extroverts (again, one from
each Duality pair) interact with each other as relations of Activity.
Introverts in relations of Activity become slightly extroverted and more
open, whereas two extroverts will often calm down a little.


Activation pairs
----------------

-  :doc:`ILE <ILE>` and :doc:`ESE <ESE>`
-  :doc:`LII <LII>` and :doc:`SEI <SEI>`
-  :doc:`SLE <SLE>` and :doc:`EIE <EIE>`
-  :doc:`LSI <LSI>` and :doc:`IEI <IEI>`
-  :doc:`SEE <SEE>` and :doc:`LIE <LIE>`
-  :doc:`ESI <ESI>` and :doc:`ILI <ILI>`
-  :doc:`EII <EII>` and :doc:`SLI <SLI>`
-  :doc:`IEE <IEE>` and :doc:`LSE <LSE>`


Theoretical properties of activation
------------------------------------

Activation pairs share the :doc:`Jungian dichotomy <jungian>`
of Extraversion / Introversion but differ on three other dichotomies of
Rationality / Irrationality, Logic / Ethics, and Sensing / Intuition.

Model A
~~~~~~~

Functions 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 reflect on functions 6, 5, 8, 7, 2,
1, 4, 3.

.. list-table:: Functions of :doc:`Model A <model_a>`
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Partner 1
      - Partner 2
    * - :ref:`base function <leading-func>`
      - :ref:`mobilizing function <activating-func>`
    * - :ref:`creative function <creative-func>`
      - :ref:`suggestive function <suggestive-func>`
    * - :ref:`role function <role-func>`
      - :ref:`demonstrative function <demonstrative-func>`
    * - :ref:`vulnerable function <PoLR-func>`
      - :ref:`ignoring function <ignoring-func>`


Reinin traits
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As with all non-identical types, activation types have exactly 7 :doc:`Reinin traits <reinin_dich>` in common, with the remaining 8 not in common.

:doc:`Reinin dichotomies <reinin_dich>` in Activation relations:

**In Common:** |EI| · |DA| · |TS| · |CE| · |PN| · |JD| · |MS|

**Not in Common:** |NS| · |TF| · |jp| · |CF| · |YO| · |SD| · |PR| · |AD|



External links
--------------

-  `Relations of Activity <http://www.socionics.com/rel/act.htm>`_ by :doc:`Sergei Ganin <ganin>`


.. |EI| replace:: :doc:`extraversion and introversion <extra_intro>`
.. |DA| replace:: :doc:`democratic and aristocratic <democratic_aristocratic>`
.. |TS| replace:: :doc:`tactical and strategic <tactical_strategic>`
.. |CE| replace:: :doc:`constructivist and emotivist <constructivist_emotivist>`
.. |PN| replace:: :doc:`positivist and negativist <positivist_negativist>`
.. |JD| replace:: :doc:`judicious and decisive <judicious_decisive>`
.. |MS| replace:: :doc:`merry and serious <merry_serious>`
.. |NS| replace:: :doc:`sensing and intuition <sensing_intuition>`
.. |TF| replace:: :doc:`ethics and logic <ethics_logic>`
.. |jp| replace:: :doc:`rationality and irrationality <ration_irration>`
.. |CF| replace:: :doc:`carefree and farsighted <carefree_farsighted>`
.. |YO| replace:: :doc:`yielding and obstinate <yielding_obstinate>`
.. |SD| replace:: :doc:`static and dynamic <statics_dynamics>`
.. |PR| replace:: :doc:`process and result <process_result>`
.. |AD| replace:: :doc:`asking and declaring <asking_declaring>`