Contact and Inert Subtypes by Meged and Ovcharov
========================================================

This article serves as the theoretical basis for the widely used Meged
and Ovcharov's subtype descriptions. It was originally published as
*"The Concept of Energy Exchanges in Model "A" and Construction of Two
Main Vertical Subtypes"* by :doc:`Valentina Meged <meged_ovcharov>` and
:doc:`Anatoliy Ovcharov <meged_ovcharov>`.


Introduction
------------

Practical experience in socionics consulting provided us with an
opportunity to notice and track certain patterns in external traits and
particularities of behavior not only between different sociotypes, but
also among representatives of the same type. These differences extend to
external appearance, to manners of behavior, and to style of
conversation. Their variability is large, but two main trends in
differences between representative of same type can be noticed. Some
seem more active, initiative-taking, and confident in themselves
(representatives of active temperaments - sanguine and choleric), while
others seem more inert, passive, and indecisive (representatives of
passive temperaments - melancholic and phlegmatic).

We have asked ourselves this question: in what way are these
temperaments related to the specifics of functioning of EIM model?
[translator's note: "EIM" acronym stands for energy-informational
metabolism]. This wasn't difficult to guess. In the circular model "A",
besides four horizontal blocks there are also two vertical blocks: the
first vertical block is
:ref:`inert <contact>` - it gradually
accumulates information and reluctantly spends it, thus it is socially
more passive; the second block is
:ref:`contacting <contact>` - it actively
expends information and interacts with the environment more intensively.

This draws a clear analogy between temperaments and functioning of
vertical blocks of Model "A". It means that the elements of EIM located
in different vertical blocks should also be differently strengthened for
representatives of different temperaments. Evidently, this determines
the most important differences between people of the same sociotype but
different temperaments.



Relating EIM Model to Neurological Processes
--------------------------------------------

We could further support this hypothesis by making a connection between
the particularities of energy exchange of EIM model and the dynamic of
neurological processes in cerebral cortex that have been described by
neurophysiologists I. Sechenov and I. Pavlov.

Undoubtedly, that the process called information metabolism is the
result of higher cognitive activity in human beings. Conditioned and
unconditioned reflexes described by I. Pavlov find a reflection in
functions of mental and vital rings of model of EIM. Our goal was to use
the mechanism of these cognitive processes to analyze the
characteristics of energy-informational exchanges between socionics
functions of model "A".

| It is known that the activity of the cerebral cortex presents a
  complex mosaic of processes of excitation and inhibition. These
  processes are subject to two fundamental laws of neurophysiology:
| - Law of irradiation and concentration of energy.
| - Law of reciprocal induction.

The law of irradiation and concentration of energy, that affects the
processes of excitation and inhibition, shows itself as follows. When,
under the influence of some stimulus, there appears excitation of some
part of the brain, it does not remain in fixed in place but radiates
(spreads) to other parts of the cerebral cortex. This is the irradiation
of excitation. Example: being engaged in a conflict, a person responds
by using higher intonation and gestures. At the same time, there appears
another process - inhibition, which has a protective function. It
restricts the process and and directs it to a certain limit. This is the
concentration of the excitation. The rate of these processes depends the
type of the nervous system i.e. on person's temperament.

The law of reciprocal induction of excitation and inhibition processes
can be described as follows. If, in any part of the brain, there appears
a process of excitation, then, in the neighboring regions of the brain,
there will appear the process of inhibition. This is the phenomenon of
negative induction. Example: appearance of a sudden sound or bright
light will distract a person from work. Similarly, there also exists
positive induction. If in any part of the brain there appears a process
of inhibition, the process of excitation will develop in the neighboring
regions of the brain; an example of this is having dreams.

All of this suggests that the working of any element of EIM does not
occur in isolation but evokes certain reactions from other elements of
the EIM.

Moving on from dynamics of nervous processes to workings of model of
EIM, let us recall the main conclusions of C. Jung about mutual
exclusion in interaction of opposite functions of the human psyche:
thinking and feeling, sensation and intuition.



Construction of Vertical Model
------------------------------

Now, let's take a look at an example of some circular model of EIM - for
example :doc:`Model A <model_a>` of type IEE - and all of these patterns
and conclusions will become evident in the construction of two major
vertical subtypes.

**TIM IEE (ENFp)**

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Inert functions                  | Contact functions                |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 1st Program function - Ne        | 2nd Creative function - Fi       |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 4th Painful function - Ti        | 3rd Role function - Se           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 6th Activating function -Te      | 5th Suggestive function - Si     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7th Ignoring function -Ni        | 8th Demonstrative function - Fe  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
|                                  |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

| The four functions on the left hand side comprise the **Inert Block**
  and the four functions on the right are called the **Contact Block**.



Distribution of Energy Potential Across the Model
-------------------------------------------------

We will be using signs (+) and (-) to illustrate the relative
distribution of the energy potential between the functions of the
different subtypes. These plus and minus signs are not related in any
manner with the signs of functions used by Victor Gulenko, as the
purpose of our analysis in this article is completely different.

In our analysis, the sign (+) represents augmentation, an increase in
energy potential, while the sign (-) represents its decrease.

Type IEE, due to :ref:`"program" function <leading-func>` of
intuition of possibilities, is discerning of undisclosed abilities of
people. In presence of an object bearing exceptional qualities, this
function receives a (+) - an increase in energy potential. The more this
function is accentuated in the individual - the stronger the increase in
energy potential. This subtype, however, has less pronounced displays of
affection than the second subtype, which is accentuated with respect to
the ethics of relations (Fi). Thus we assign (-) to ethics of relations
for the first subtype. The second subtype, to the contrary, will more
frequently manifest the ethics of relations in contact with people than
intuition of their latent potential. Intuition of potential of this
subtype will be assigned a (-) sign, while ethics of relations - a (+)
sign.

Thus, the first subtype of IEE will have greater disposition towards
melancholic or phlegmatic temperamental states, and a relative
strengthening with the (+) sign of intuition of possibilities compared
to the second subtype, which has stronger expression of sanguine or
choleric temperamental states.

In accordance to the rules mentioned above, the process of excitation
coming from first or second function will extend further across the
entire model, changing the energy potential of the remaining functions.
Some functions will become more strongly excited and acquire the (+)
sign, others will experience certain inhibition and a decrease in the
energy potential, acquiring the (-) sign.

Carl Jung wrote that for a logical type ethical functions become
suppressed, and that an unconscious grouping of functions arises in
accordance to the conscious contents of functions, for example, the
unconsciousness of a sensing type manifests primarily as a suppression
of intuition. From C. Jung's deductions and conclusions about the
relationships between functions of mental and vital rings (conscious and
unconscious - by Jung), it becomes evident that with excitation of an
ethical function there is suppression of logical one, and with
excitation of sensing function there is suppression of an intuitive one.
This happens not only on mental, but also in vital level of EIM model.
If, for example, intuition is strengthened, it is strengthened in both
orientations - introverted and extroverted, which also applies to other
functions. Thus, with excitation of intuition of possibilities (Ne) of
IEE model, the intuition of time (Ni) is also strengthened, and
simultaneously both sensing functions (Se and Si) become inhibited. With
excitation of ethics of relationships (Fi) there is a concurrent
suppression of structural and business logic (Ti and Te).

Carl Jung has also noted that logical functions can be easily combined
with intuitive ones but never with the feeling functions. Intuition,
same as sensing, is not in opposition to logic, as is feeling that
competes with logic. Thus, the excitation of intuitive functions in our
example of type IEE correspondingly slows down the functions of ethics
of relations and ethics of emotions (Fi and Fe) and, respectively,
excites both functions of structural and business logic (Ti and Te).



Construction of Contact and Inert Subtypes
------------------------------------------

Now let's distribute (+) and (-) signs over the functions of EIM model
in correspondence to the conclusions made above concerning the
distributions of energy potential in construction of two vertical
subtypes. These signs of energy potential represent the processes of
excitation and inhibition in the cerebral cortex in the process of
formation of active or passive temperaments, which, in turn, involve a
relative strengthening of either first or second function of EIM model,
and subsequent strengthening of all functions of first or second
vertical block of the model, which is clearly visible in the following
tables:

**Ne Subtype of TIM IEE - Inert subtype**

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Inert functions                  | Contact functions                |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| (+)Ne - 1st program function     | (-)Fi - 2nd creative function    |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| (+)Ti - 4th painful function     | (-)Se - 3rd role function        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| (+)Te - 6th painful function     | (-)Si - 5th suggestive function  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| (+)Ni - 7th ignoring function    | (-)Fe - 8th demonstrative        |
|                                  | function                         |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
|                                  |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

**Fi Subtype of TIM IEE - Contact subtype**

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Inert functions                  | Contact functions                |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| (-)Ne - 1st program function     | (+)Fi - 2nd creative function    |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| (-)Ti - 4th painful function     | (+)Se - 3rd role function        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| (-)Te - 6th painful function     | (+)Si - 5th suggestive function  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| (-)Ni - 7th ignoring function    | (+)Fe - 8th demonstrative        |
|                                  | function                         |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
|                                  |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

These tables illustrate what was said above, that upon excitation of
first function, i.e. acquisition of positive potential, all the other
functions of the left (inert) vertical block acquire the same positive
potential. With the strengthening of the second function correspondingly
follows strengthening of all functions of the right (contact) vertical
block. On basis of this, we can talk about existence of intuitive or
ethical, sensing or logical subtypes of any type and consider these
subtypes to be vertical, i.e. associates with the respective functions
within the vertical blocks of the model of EIM.

On our theory of vertical subtypes, another theory of professional
orientation of subtypes can be formulated. As is known, the functions of
ethics and intuition, united into the same "Ego" block, according to V.
Gulenko correspond to predisposition towards humanitarian professional
activities, the functions of sensing and logic correspond to management
and production professional activities, sensing and ethics - to social
sphere of activity, intuition and logic - to research sphere of
activity. The career predispositions of main socionics types can be
easily determined by looking at the horizontal blocks of their
functional models. To determine the influence of subtypes, one needs to
take a look at vertical blocks.

For example, intuitive subtype of IEE is inclined towards humanitarian
professional activity and has a "subtype" predisposition towards
research. This means that since in the vertical block both intuitive and
logical functions are strengthened, this person may choose a
professional field combines scientific and humanitarian professional
activities, and be quite successful in this. The ethical subtype of IEE,
due to relative strengthening of ethical and sensing functions in the
vertical block of EIM model, more successfully realizes him/herself in
fields of activity that combine humanitarian and social work. In the
same manner, all other sociotypes can be analyzed.

Based on our theory of vertical subtypes, we have also done empirical
studies of the visual and behavioral characteristics of 32 subtypes and
compiled their characterizing profiles [ref. 6].

Our observations indicate that within each of the 32 subtypes we can
further differentiate 8 variations that are associated with enhancement
of some elements of EIM, but not related to temperaments rather other
physiological characteristics of the human central nervous system, which
also find a reflection in the model of EIM. This is covered in our next
article "Bioaccentuation of type". Thus, creating a bridge between
psychology, physiology and socionics, we have noted that this is not the
limit to variability in individuals of the same type. We invite all our
readers to follow this promising and exciting path towards new and
useful discoveries.

References
----------

#. Augustinavichiute A. "Model of information metabolism" Lithuania,
   1980.
#. Gulenko V. "Signs of Socionics functions" - "16", No 2, 1990.
#. Gulenko V.V., Molodtsov A.V. "Foundations of socio-analysis" - K.,
   1991
#. Meged V.V., Ovcharov A.A. "The concept of energy exchanges in model
   "A" and the construction of subtypes" Socionics, mentology and
   psychology of personality. MIS 1, 1994.
#. C. Jung "Psychological Types". M., 1992.



Additional notes
----------------

Characterization of 32 vertical subtypes compiled by V. Meged and A.
Ovcharov:

.. list-table:: 32 vertical subtypes
    :header-rows: 1
    :stub-columns: 1

    * - 
      - strengthened
      - shielded
      - attenuated
      - sensitive
      - approx.
    * - Ne-LII
      - Ne, Fe
      - Ni, Fi
      - Ti, Si
      - Te, Se
      - β NFs
    * - Ti-LII
      - Ti, Si
      - Te, Se
      - Ne, Fe
      - Ni, Fi
      - δ STs
    * - Ne-EII
      - Ne, Te
      - Ni, Ti
      - Fi, Si
      - Fe, Se
      - γ NTs
    * - Fi-EII
      - Fi, Si
      - Fe, Se
      - Ne, Te
      - Ni, Ti
      - α SFs
    * - Ni-IEI
      - Ni, Ti
      - Ne, Te
      - Fe, Se
      - Fi, Si
      - α NT
    * - Fe-IEI
      - Fe, Se
      - Fi, Si
      - Ni, Ti
      - Ne, Te
      - γ SFs
    * - Ni-ILI
      - Ni, Fi
      - Ne, Fe
      - Te, Se
      - Ti, Si
      - δ NFs
    * - Te-ILI
      - Te, Se
      - Ti, Si
      - Ni, Fi
      - Ne, Fe
      - β STs
    * - Ne-ILE
      - Ne, Fe
      - Ni, Fi
      - Ti, Si
      - Te, Se
      - β NFs
    * - Ti-ILE
      - Ti, Si
      - Te, Se
      - Ne, Fe
      - Ni, Fi
      - δ STs
    * - Ne-IEE
      - Ne, Te
      - Ni, Ti
      - Fi, Si
      - Fe, Se
      - γ NT
    * - Fi-IEE
      - Fi, Si
      - Fe, Se
      - Ne, Te
      - Ni, Ti
      - α SFs
    * - Fi-ESI
      - Fi, Ni
      - Fe, Ne
      - Se, Te
      - Si, Ti
      - β NFs
    * - Se-ESI
      - Se, Te
      - Si, Ti
      - Fi, Ni
      - Fe, Ne
      - δ STs


See also
--------

-  :doc:`Subtyping Schemes <subtype>`
