DeLong, Richard
======================

Owner and creator of `www.Socionics.us <http://www.socionics.us>`__
("Socionics in the West") and `The
Ex-Socionist <http://socionist.blogspot.com>`__ (blog). He has
discontinued his study of socionics at the present time. Rick self-typed
as IEE.



About himself and his introduction to socionics
-----------------------------------------------

"Born in 1977 in United States. During an internship in Kiev in 2000, I
was introduced to socionist Alexander Kushnir, who later has taught
socionics to me individually. At our first meeting, I heatedly argued
with him, and our second meeting he told me in great detail about my
type and the type of my then girlfriend, which he identified correctly
from her photos, and of our relationship. I was shocked and surprised by
all that he told me, and continued to feel surprised for many more
months. I returned to United States to continue studying and to digest
information that I have already acquired, including the writings of
Aushra and several other authors whose works I have read on the
Internet. Thus it turned out that I learned socionics in isolation,
having at first undergone a strict training, due to which I had very
clear idea of ??socionics that I eventually softened. As a result of a
more rational approach to my inner feelings and experiences, I left the
sect in which I spent my youth, and found an opportunity to move to
Kiev. Visiting the Kiev socionics club, for the first time I have
encountered discrepancies in typing and felt disappointed by what I've
seen. Nevertheless, I started attending courses (mainly from Viktor
Gulenko) and lectures, and made ??several unsuccessful attempts to spend
more than half a day at socionics conferences. Then I distanced from
socionics, because I wasn't sure what else there was to do with it. On
one hand, the fact that I have developed my own independent view of
socionics was gnawing at me, and on the other hand, I was averse to most
of the socionics meetings. In 2003, I took on a student from U.S. to
teach him and put together some basic materials in English. It was later
that I undertook creation of Socionics.us website, after finishing
another 2-3 web projects, and when I finally understood that I want to
realize my knowledge in this sphere, that it was needed by others. In
socionics, I am most interested in self-knowledge and the development of
inner sensitivity to information, states and people, the ability to
adequately understand the world and other people and build a richer
interaction with them, as well as the understanding of social processes
by means socionics categories - such a self-centered interest in
socionics :). For the most part I am engaged in attending to my
websites, teaching English language, translation, and various kinds of
entrepreneurial activities."



On his current opinions on socionics
------------------------------------

"Socionics is a typology of personality and relationships that was
developed in the late Soviet Union by Lithuanian researcher Aushra
Augustinavichiute and her friends. I began learning socionics in 2000 in
Kiev and in 2006 created the popular English-language resource
Socionics.us (>100 visitors a day for most of its lifetime), along with
some other socionics-related projects. In November 2012 I moved the
entire Socionics.us website to a folder of my personal website
RickDeLong.com  both to save money on hosting services and because my
views on socionics had changed substantially.

At the link below you can browse the complete Socionics.us website in
its last edited state (pre-Nov. 2012). On the top of each page you will
see a link to an article explaining `what I think is wrong with
socionics <http://www.rickdelong.com/socionics/must_read.shtml>`__,
which will be updated as my views solidify and I respond to readers'
comments. I do not plan to develop Socionics.us any further; however, I
will continue posting on psychological topics at The Socionist blog and
may incorporate or transform ideas from socionics in future writings."



See also
--------

-  `Socionics in the
   West <https://web.archive.org/web/20151126101533/http://rickdelong.com/socionics/intro.shtml>`__
-  `The (Ex)-Socionist <http://socionist.blogspot.com>`__
-  `Page on
   socionic.ru <http://socionic.ru/index.php/2010-09-24-11-44-46/437-delong_rik_2>`__
-  `Page on
   Zanoza.ru <http://zanoza.socioland.ru/wiki/%D0%94%D0%B5%D0%BB%D0%BE%D0%BD%D0%B3,_%D0%A0%D0%B8%D0%BA>`__
