Descriptions of Dual Relations by Gulenko
====================================================



.. _ILE-SEI-Gulenko:

SEI-ILE
-------

1. Ne: program function of ENTp and dual-seeking function of ISFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ILE periodically makes "program" function statements regarding the
prospects of various concepts, sets forth unconventional ideas and
hypotheses, of which he learned via attending various lectures,
seminars, and unsystematic reading, at the same time transforming this
information and adding his own commentary. The SEI is oriented at
receiving information of this kind, that is, information that is most
original and far-reaching in content and at the same time vague and
general, allowing for many different interpretations about its form. The
SEI recognizes a conversation partner who presents information in such
manner as the most intelligent, insightful, and therefore the most
interesting person.

2. Ti: creative function of ENTp and activating function of ISFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ILE is capable of destroying old, fragile, and outdated structures,
creating schisms in organizations, differentiating new branches and
followings, and organizing new schools. Behavioral information of this
kind is very attractive to the SEI. Resulting anarchy and instability,
as well as rise of informal groups united by common splinter interests,
is precisely the kind of situation where the SEI finds the most use for
himself, functioning as an organizer and a conciliator, who objectively
analyzes conflicts and gathers different supporters of the new movement
or theory within a framework of single direction. The domestic aspect of
duality of their functions is as follows: the ILE is very scattered at
home and tends to leave things where he has last used them, buth with
SEI's efforts sufficient level of order can be ensured. With SEI's
efforts things will not disappear.

3. Se: role function of ENTp and ignoring function of ISFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In accordance with his role function, the ILE is able to mobilize in
emergency situations. If the ILE is subjected to strong outside
pressuring, he or she is able to counter and resist it. For example,
mobilizing all his strengths, the ILE can clear a backlog in work and
chores in cases of urgent need or approaching deadlines. This function,
being normative, i.e. inflexible, includes a limited set of behavioral
norms. The SEI serves as a director of this function by providing advice
concerning the initiative, determination, and specific actions: "Achieve
everything by your own hands", "Do not sit around," "Do this right now",
etc.

4. Fi: vulnerable function of ENTp and demonstrative function of ISFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For ILE it is difficult to express a personal dislike towards a person
and to set psychological distances: he is friendly and well predisposed
to everyone equally and doesn't push anyone away. At the same time, the
ILE is poorly perceptive of other's attitude towards him/herself. He
often behaves unceremoniously, likes looking at and analyzing others,
and generally makes little regard for ethical standards in his
relations. Knowing this often apologizes. The SEI does not address this
weakness verbally, that is, he doesn't try to criticize and teach the
ILE. These issues the SEI resolves himself and does so unconsciously. On
this function, the SEI creates short psychological distances, which
shows as sociability and amiability in contact with people. By this
behavior that forges a democratic, friendly, relaxed atmosphere, the SEI
eliminates the need for the ILE to be always proper and to comply with
etiquette in order to not shock others by his behaviors.

5. Si: dual-seeking function of ENTp and program function of ISFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ILE is set to accept information that conveys many interesting
details and colorful associations, that would be easy to remember. It
helps him to cover his abstract, far-reaching, and not always clear to
others ideas with a convenient and comprehensible shell. This inspires
the ILE, demonstrates the usefulness of his theoretical work and its
closeness to people's needs. Not receiving such sensory support to his
ideas and plans, the ILE starts to believe that a crisis is brewing
around him, accuses the society of "degradation." "Program" function
statements of the SEI regarding relaxation, leisure, comfort as
prerequisites for one's well-being alleviate ILE's accumulating tension
and remind him of the need to take care of his physical self and his
appearance.

6. Fe: activating function of ENTp and creative function of ISFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ILE feels uncomfortable for open expressions of emotions, for
laxness, for low physical performance. Therefore, he demonstrates
restraint and seriousness, compiled with internal dramatization. He
needs periodic emotional shake-ups, which he receives from the SEI. The
SEI is able to "wind up" a person by making prodding jokes, playful
quips, speaking in hints and innuendos. When a person loses himself
emotionally, the SEI's emotional winding stops. This 'anarchist' quality
to the emotions of the SEI is exactly what is needed to maintain high
spirits and vitality of the ILE. Not getting emotional support of this
kind from an SEI partner, the ILE tries to achieve it by attending
various parties and entertainment events.

7. Ni: Ignoring function of ENTp and role function of ISFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ILE subconsciously feels the flow of events in time. From past he is
able to predict future, thus he is often discounting towards past
achievements and quickly loses interest in them. He gives advice of
tactical nature: how to act in a difficult situation, how to pull
oneself out of a tangle of contradictions. The ILE knows how to find a
third option when one is faced with two alternatives. Due to this
quality, the ILE directs this function for the SEI, describes future
prospects, shows him win-win solutions and propositions. Without such
advice and adjustments from ILE, the activities of the SEI are much less
successful - on one hand, they are too lightweight and unproblematic,
and on the other, offer no solutions to the contradictions that have
accumulated from the past.

8. Te: demonstrative function of ENTp and vulnerable function of ISFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ILE possesses an unconscious ability to benefit from any situation
in which he finds himself (this quality is more pronounced in the
logical subtype than the intuitive subtype). This practical activity has
an indirect nature i.e. enterprise, trade, negotiation etc. rather than
being based on direct production. On this function the ILE exerts no
verbal effect on the SEI, doesn't openly and verbally criticize or teach
him. It is difficult for the SEI to engage in directly pragmatic
activities. The SEI tends to solve problems of this nature on an
informal level via connections that are available to him. The ILE
relieves the SEI from having to deal with complex rules of official
business relations, showing his talents as a "combinator" and initiator
of favorable contracts and bargains.

.. _ESE-LII-Gulenko:

LII-ESE
-------

1. Fe: program function of ESFj and dual-seeking function of INTj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ESE periodically tells emotionally charged "program" function
stories, telling of how somebody has acted and what they have done. The
main orientation of ESE's leading ethical program is: "No one should be
offended." The LII carefully listens to these statements, and,
demonstrating a full understanding of these issues, develops logical
basis for them, e.g. in calm persuasive voice he explains how the ESE
has acted justly and fairly. The effusion of turbulent emotions coming
from the ESE is counterbalanced by their absorption by the LII, who
breaks them down into fragments by asking clarifying questions of the
ESE.

2. Si: creative function of ESFj and activating function of INTj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The LII feels discomfort in cases of sensory expressions in public, for
example, it feels uncomfortable to be wearing a bright shirt if others
are dressed in neutral tones, to be looking at himself in the mirror, to
be eating something savory when others aren't eating, etc. Therefore the
LII gravitates towards demonstrative asceticism, may exhaust himself
with work, studies, or exercise. The ESE periodically takes care of
creating an environment that "charges" the LII with pleasant sensations:
a reception of guests, a good meal, a visit to a theater or a concert,
an interesting trip, and so on. At the same time the ESE takes pleasure
in this himself.

3. Te: role function of ESFj and ignoring function of INTj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The role function of the ESE manifests as business-oriented activity and
initiative, supplying interesting information, provision with material
assistance to those who are in need, general restlessness and fussy
busyness. This function is normative, i.e. the ESE seeks to comply with
the norms and accepted ways of doing things. The nuancing of the
understanding of these norms, i.e. introduction of activities that go
beyond them, is possible only by considering LII's advice and
recommendations. The LII serves as a director of this function,
adjusting its workings by advocating the necessity of practical
application of some beneficial ideas, rejection of useless though
spectacular ideas, and the need to ensure standards of life not below
average by rejection of equalization.

4. Ni: vulnerable function of ESFj and demonstrative function of INTj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ESE poorly feels the flow of time, both physical, which manifests as
running late and poor distribution of his strengths over time, and
historical, which manifests as poor ability to anticipate consequences
of actions, certain conservativeness in tastes, and tendency for
traditional ways of solving problems. The ESE finds it difficult to make
radical choices. The LII fully takes this aspect onto his shoulders. He
has an unconscious ability to distribute activities in time, thereby
avoiding work stress and overloads, and is capable of making a radical
choice. The LII is able to calmly wait and in the necessary moment get
to work when the wasteful fussiness of the ESE reaches its critical
point.

5. Ti: dual-seeking function of ESFj and program function of INTj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ESE is tuned to accepting information when it's relayed in clear
logical form. He issues requests for logical explanations delivered from
a point of view of generalized rules underpinning specific life events,
which he receives from the LII, who delivers clear unambiguous
interpretations, places the dots over all "i's", and demonstrates good
understanding of problems that are of concern to the ESE. Not receiving
information of this kind, the ESE begins making demands of those around
him to be "intelligent" and understand the reasons of his actions.

6. Ne: activating function of ESFj and creative function of INTj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ESE feels uncomfortable if he doesn't extend his help to people who
are in need of it. His subconscious orientation is: "care and guard the
talented", be kind and attentive towards other people. The LII usually
meets such criteria by proving in action his aptitude at uncovering
hidden capabilities, winning trust, passing on the knowledge. The ESE
creates supportive conditions for people who are capable but lacking in
assertive "push-through" qualities, among whom the LII finds himself,
and a special work regime that protects such individuals from overloads
on sensing functions. However, for the ESE it is difficult to assess the
degree of someone's abilities or prospectiveness of various proposals.
He cannot grasp intrinsic qualities due to weak intuition. Only the LII
is able to, even having a vague general notion about the subject,
construct a developed theory of any issue. This theory shows to be
promising in the process of its concrete application within its field.

7. Fi: ignoring function of ESFj and role function of INTj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On this function the ESE gives advice and makes demands concerning the
creation of appropriate psychological distances in form of proper
behavior, courtesy and politeness, denouncing rudeness and boorishness.
In this manner, the ESE adjusts LII's role function, which in itself
contains a set of large psychological distances: a sullen stubborn look,
unsociability, etc. With such fine-tuning it becomes easier for the LII
to come into contact with people, whereby he becomes more animated,
resolves many of his ethical problems that previously frightened him,
gains greater insight into human relationships and a more accurate
understanding as to whose side to take in situations of conflict.

8. Se: demonstrative function of ESFj and vulnerable function of INTj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The LII finds it very difficult to exert pressure on other people from
his own will and initiative, especially in cases when he needs to attain
something for himself. He finds this difficult to do - to press ahead in
certain situations, to gather all the required paperwork, to stand in
lines and queues, to petition for his own interests, even the ones that
are of vital importance to him. He finds it difficult to push a person
away, to sharply refuse someone, to quarrel loudly and defend his
rights, to put an end to relations that have exhausted themselves. The
ESE doesn't directly affect this function, i.e. he doesn't verbally
criticize and teach the LII on this aspect, but takes over its
functioning completely. The ESE exerts a constant, sometimes intrusive
and imposing pressure on other people if there is a need to achieve
something, to defend justice and demand fair treatment, to protect
interests of those who are close and dear to him. The ESE goes to the
right jurisdictions, inspires people around him and directs them towards
work and purposeful activity, keeps up a high pace of life himself, and
breaks off relations with those who don't deserve trust.

.. _SLE-IEI-Gulenko:

IEI-SLE
-------

1. Se: program function of ESTp and dual-seeking function of INFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The SLE periodically makes "program" function statements about the need
for resolute action, but never requires it to be undertaken immediately.
The main requirement of his sensing "program" is the achievement of
major objectives with application of force only when it's absolutely
necessary. SLE's strategy is an open declaration of conflict with
subsequent pressure exerted on his opposition through individuals who
are able to exert such an influence. The IEI listening to these
"program" statements shouldn't question them as a whole. Any remarks on
this aspect should be made in small portions and in proper form.
Criticisms of this kind are not possible because the IEI unconsciously
seeks such manifestations of such resolute activity and willpower within
his environment. On this same function the IEI turns to SLE for advice
regarding abilities of different people, their strengths and weaknesses,
their progress forward, etc. He seeks consultation regarding the degree
of his own actions and efforts; not receiving advice of this kind the
IEI being unaware of it advances with his/her own harsh "program".

2. Ti: creative function of ESTp and activating function of INFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In accordance to the goal of the first function, the SLE periodically
enacts re-positioning of people, distancing some while bringing others
closer. In this he is more inclined to bring people closer to him, tends
to distinguish his favorites. The IEI often doesn't pay any attention to
placement of people within physical space. He is inclined to ignore this
aspect and feels awkward if he has to situate anyone himself. He cannot
deliberately position people; for example, as a host, the IEI won't
assign guests to their seats. Such an arrangement is periodically and
consciously performed by the SLE. Not receiving such support the
vitality of IEI wanes.

3. Ne: role function of ESTp and ignoring function of INFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The SLE adapts to the surrounding reality, acts himself attentive to
others, listens to other people and goes into their problems, in which
he usually takes pride. But at the same time he is pessimistically
inclined with a tendency to notice negative qualities of people rather
than positive ones. The SLE intuitively perceives weaknesses in other
people and uses them. He also has little faith in positive outcome of
events. The IEI manages and directs this function to its optimum by
giving advice to the SLE on how to refer to different people and what
for. The general content of such advice is: "Approach so-and-so person
from another direction, then you will get from him what you want." The
IEI also provides advice concerning favorable future outcomes, instills
hope into SLE with phrases such as: "Everything that is done, is for the
better", " Calm down, everything will be alright", or "Don't worry over
small things." Advice of this kind should not be turned down, otherwise
there won't be expansion of the normative base of adaptation.

4. Fi: vulnerable function of ESTp and demonstrative function of INFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

SLE poorly sees what relations are developing between people. He fears
that his personal relationships will be put on display or used against
him. It is difficult for him to openly express his sympathy for another
person. He often makes mistakes when he assumes that someone relates to
him well. Moving towards his purpose, he risks evoking bad attitudes in
others when they notice his quality to not to stop at anything. IEI
refrains from openly criticizing this function and treats it with
understanding. Lecturing and annoying hectoring over this element can
lead to a sharp deterioration of SLE's mood. The IEI unconsciously
produces large psychological distances on this element, he as if slips
away from his conversation partner, closes himself off behind a
meaningless smile. Events that are relayed by his conversation partner
do not affect him deeply. It is exactly these kind of elusively polite
relations that seem inviting to the SLE, creating for him the stability
of the external psychological situation.

5. Ni: dual-seeking function of ESTp and program function of INFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

IEI periodically makes "program" function statements that concern
planning, since he sees very well the potential negative development of
person's actions over time. He remembers past events and is able to use
them to "catch" a person, to expose his cunning by use of a certain
plan. The SLE listens to these statements, not questioning them as a
whole, since that easily leads to an irritated reaction from the IEI.
The SLE periodically comes to IEI for advice concerning this function,
asking questions about forecasting the behavior of people: "What can be
expected from this person?", "Is he being sincere or dishonest?",
"Friend or foe?", etc. Commentary on this function should be issued in
small portions and in the correct form. Not receiving advice regarding
potential threats, the SLE is deprived of the point of application of
his efforts. When the SLE does receive such a program, he becomes
impassioned and starts to act resolutely.

6. Fe: activating function of ESTp and creative function of INFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

SLE feels uncomfortable when it's necessary to show negative emotions:
blow some steam, start a personal quarrel, cry or yell at people.
Therefore, he hold himself in an accentuated cool and confident manner
and prefers to state things directly and succinctly: "I don't like
this", "Leave, and go to another place" rather than raise any commotion.
At the same time SLE requires periodic "charging up" with positive
emotions. The IEI lifts his spirits with humor, funny antics and
stories, and that he loves to fool around. Without such input SLE's
vitality decreases. At the same time the "product" of IEI's ethical
function, "to cause emotional reactions in people", is smoothed out by
the fact that SLE will initiate emotional quarrels only over significant
and important for him issues.

7. Si: ignoring function of ESTp and role function of INFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The SLE constantly gives advice on this aspect, regulating the role
function of the IEI. This element manifests in IEI's behavior in a way
that when the IEI feels bad he doesn't hide it, but rather openly shows
off his poor condition, discomfort and suffering, though from aside this
may be perceived as some kind of hysterical attitude. The SLE manages
and directs this function in the IEI, keeps the IEI close by and issues
reassuring phrases about the need to take care of himself, to look after
his appearance, retain pleasant manners and erudition, etc.
Additionally, the SLE often provides example of his own calmness and
composure.

8. Te: demonstrative function of ESTp and vulnerable function of INFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On this function of logical activity and material prosperity the SLE
does not ask too many questions, taking this sphere onto his own
shoulders. Intrusive tips and annoying reminders about how to handle
money (IEI is wasteful, uneconomical), the need to work, to be thrifty,
to not be lazy, etc., can easily ruin IEI's mood and serve as a latent
reason for quarrels. Unconscious activity of the SLE in a normal state
is aimed at extracting value from any enterprise in which he is
involved. Additionally, on this function the SLE prefers direct and
large scale business activities and projects. He takes care of smaller
assignments only when the IEI experiences problems with them. Thus, this
function is set to its optimum. With normal distribution of
responsibilities within this dual pair the role of the procurer of
resources falls to SLE. Failure to do so makes this dual relationship
ineffective and may even lead to discord. The IEI uses these financial
resources and the SLE authorizes such expenditures.

.. _EIE-LSI-Gulenko:

LSI-EIE
-------

1. Ti: program function of ISTj and dual-seeking function of ENFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The LSI periodically makes "program" function statement regarding the
need to thoroughly and reliably work through a project or a field of
knowledge, to carefully consider all the aspects, and to solidly prepare
for major events. EIE listens to these statements, approves them as a
whole, but at the same time makes adjustments to this function, making
the LSI pay more attention to general trends and manifestations, thereby
not allowing the LSI to get bogged down by details. This corrective
information is given in small portions, in form of requests and advice
rather than instructions.

2. Se: creative function of ISTj and activating function of ENFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The EIE feels uncomfortable when he needs to push people to move ahead
and do something. The LSI takes this onto his shoulders, from time to
time acting in this manner, but does so with some restraint. The EIE
periodically needs to feel such forward momentum. If no such demands are
made of him, EIE's vitality wanes due to inevitable loss of interest in
any real pursuits. At the same time, the EIE tends to make many small
requests and issue errands. This tendency together with LSI's methodical
and deliberate movement in the same direction adjusts this pair's
efforts to an optimum.

3. Fi: role function of ISTj and ignoring function of ENFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The normative base of adaptation of the LSI includes gaining a variety
of short distances. Optimal distance is attained due to EIE's verbal
adjustments of this function, his advice to be more careful, to keep
away from certain people. If the LSI ignores or doesn't receive such
advice, he becomes exceedingly wary and suspicious, because the people
with whom he establishes good relations often don't behave in a way he
logically supposes that they will.

4. Ne: vulnerable function of ISTj and demonstrative function of ENFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

LSI is not always able to properly assess other people's potential
capabilities. Particularly annoying to him are large deviations from
expectations and norms. The EIE doesn't criticize him or verbalize
advice on this function, but covers for it by his unconscious ability to
provide an escape route from any situation, supplying the LSI with a
back-up plan in case of an adverse outcome of events. Any help on this
function provided in words rather than in specific actions doesn't reach
it's target but leads to a depressed state.

5. Fe: dual-seeking function of ISTj and program function of ENFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For the EIE it's typical to build up internal emotions, which leads to
major internal dynamics and emotional "over-charging"; and, as a
consequence, to frequent contradictions and fluctuations. EIE's
"program" function statements are saturated with dramatic content and
directed at curbing of the passions. The LSI hears these statements,
approves of them as a whole, but, at the same time, makes adjustments to
this function, calling for emotional releases by one way or another, for
example, with major acts of high emotional impact, shake-ups and shocks,
after which there is a period of calm and sense of satisfaction. Such
adjustments are made in small amounts and in the form of advice and
requests rather than instructions.

6. Ni: activating function of ISTj and creative function of ENFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The EIE is a person who lives in the past. He doesn't mobilize right
away, but when he does, he expands a large amount of energy and is able
to accomplish a lot of work. The LSI is able to patiently wait for this
moment. He feels somewhat uncomfortable rushing ahead and prefers to
exercise some caution and restraint. He either takes up a waiting
position, or he immediately acts himself and does the work without
delays, as he has no certainty the situation won't change. By this he
draws the EIE into activity. The EIE readily mobilizes when there is
need to do something that may save the situation. Thus, their forces are
concentrated at the same point in time. Without these kinds of surges
and breakthroughs, EIE's vitality decreases.

7. Te: ignoring function of ISTj and role function of ENFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The role function of the EIE presupposes some kind of business activity
for the purposes of materially supplying himself. Initially, this
function is set to acquisition and accumulation, to acceptance of gifts
and services. The optimum is achieved through LSI's verbal advice as to
whether acquiring a certain thing is worth further effort, to its
reasonable use and conservation. The LSI himself is very undemanding of
material things, requires only cleanliness and order in his
surroundings.

8. Si: demonstrative function of ISTj and vulnerable function of ENFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The EIE tends to be afraid of domestic discomfort. He is concerned for
the aesthetics of his appearance: with some difficulty creates a
harmonious look, is eclectic. The LSI does not criticize and instruct
him on this function. Instead, he covers for it by his unconscious
ability to supply convenience and comfort at home: the LSI works doing
everything by his own hands, organizing things in their places,
maintaining and preserving some measure of order. The LSI gives
compliments not over person's total appearance, but directs them at some
specific aspects, accessories, or pieces of clothing. Thus, even in this
the sign of the function is kept.

.. _LIE-ESI-Gulenko:

ESI-LIE
-------

1. Te: program function of ENTj and dual-seeking function of ISFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The LIE periodically issues "program" function statements of pragmatic
orientation i.e. the purpose of such statements is to point out the
useful aspects of any project or activity. It is characteristic of the
LIE to consider any idea or theory from point of view of its utility and
move it in the direction of some tangible result and returns. The ESI is
waiting to receive information of this kind. He concertizes and
actualizes information that he receives in form of "logic of actions".
In the absence of major pragmatic objectives and direction, the ESI
feels unsure and vacillates in choosing what to do and the purpose of
all his activities; he starts making demands of those around him to be
practical and logical even in minor things; his vitality and energy
wane.

2. Ni: creative function of ENTj and activating function of ISFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The LIE lives by the future. The past for him isn't as important. Rapid
mobilization is characteristic of people of this type. The LIE often
rushes others: do this now, do not delay or postpone. He himself takes
up work immediately if he considers it useful in his opinion, and will
bring it to some perhaps not major but tangible result. Activities of
this kind are very stimulating to the ESI, who is annoyed by any
unfinished work and activity that isn't productive. In addition, the ESI
feels unsure and uncomfortable in regard to his own ability to
coordinate his activities and work in time, and when others notice how
much effort this costs him. For this reason ESI dislikes sitting around,
waiting for some major event or the inevitable approach of some
deadline, but prefers to do things ahead of time. The LIE
correspondingly does not tell him anything long in advance, but tends to
inform him about any task or action just before it needs to be done.

3. Fe: role function of ENTj and ignoring function of ISFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On this function the LIE will issue emotions. Even though this is his
role function, these emotions coming from LIE in form of humor or irony
can be transmitted to an audience that is discussing serious issues and
serve to defuse and lighten up the situation. Such positive, humorous
emotions are well received by the ESI, who likes it when he is being
talked to in a playful-crafty tone. He picks up these emotions and
further develops them into concrete expressions. The ESI adjusts the LIE
over this function, orienting him at issuing not only positive but also
negative expressions, such as: "Go to him and tell him directly all that
you think of him", "You have nothing to lose", etc. Without ESI's
adjustments the jokes of LIE may seem inappropriate, even intrusive and
boorish - a behavior of a man who cannot control and restrain himself.

4. Si: vulnerable function of ENTj and demonstrative function of ISFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The LIE poorly copes with the task of creating and ensuring convenient
living conditions, especially when it comes to details and minor tasks.
If this isn't taken care of by his partner, he can go around unkempt and
live in spartan conditions to which he grows accustomed. The LIE
dislikes being stared at directly or having his appearance, sense or
taste, or manners being evaluated. The ESI doesn't look directly into
the eyes of his companion for a long time (which is especially typical
of the ethical subtype, Fi-ESI). The ESI tries to make up for the
deficiency of experiences and sensations through activities, hiking
trips or sport. He himself feels fine in situations of relative physical
strain and discomfort. Moreover, he readily takes up creation of an
environment that meets essential needs anywhere he goes. The ESI knows
how to arrange the space in accordance with basic living requirements,
even under difficult and challenging conditions, such as a hike or
extensive traveling. Better conditions the ESI creates only for other
people, for example, for the reception of guests.

5. Fi: dual-seeking function of ENTj and program function of ISFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The LIE keeps at close personal distances with other people, which
doesn't permit him to accurately evaluate people's attitudes towards
himself. He is receptive to receiving ethical information which would
identify malefactors and ill-wishers is his surroundings. Such
information the LIE receives from the ESI, who is very discerning in
people's attitude towards himself and is able to spot informal in-groups
and cliques that are after their own goals. The ESI remembers for a long
time any negative acts and deeds that were directed at him and tells the
LIE of this. Optimal interpersonal distance in this pair is reached by
combining ESI's alertness around other people with LIE's familiar,
easy-going attitude with which he readily comes into contact with those
who interest him.

6. Se: activating function of ENTj and creative function of ISFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The LIE feels unsure of how to advance his interests, to pressure people
in order to claim his share of returns, or to mobilize others for
productive activity. At times, he behaves with demonstrative
disobedience, mischievousness, and belligerence. Active defense of
interests, provision of volitional pressuring, subjugation of those who
disobey, and ability to deal a "counter-blow" are the strong points of
his dual ESI. Moreover, retaliatory strikes are delivered on the most
vulnerable spots of his opponents, typically over minor points that are
difficult to anticipate and deflect, which sometimes imparts an
impression of vindictiveness and treachery on the part of ESI. Optimum
is achieved through the combination of narrowly focused, retaliatory
actions of the ESI with the broad, coarse, and easily noticeable
pressuring wielded by the LIE. Combination of open plans of "noble" po

7. Ti: ignoring function of ENTj and role function of ISFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

LIE's thinking is automatically tuned to objective logic in form of
development of concrete technologies and methods within any field. He
automatically divides big assignments or projects into many smaller
sub-tasks that can be concretely realized, and identifies the order in
which they should be implemented. By providing the ESI with guidance and
information of this kind, the LIE supports his role function, which is
oriented at finding general principles. The normative attitude of the
ESI includes large physical distances that don't allow other people to
approach him too closely. The LIE adjusts this function by explaining
what for a person is needed, what can be obtained or learned from him or
her. Without such advice, the ESI feels uncomfortable being with a
seemingly unneeded person at close distances.

8. Ne: demonstrative function of ENTj and vulnerable function of ISFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The LIE is akin to a pioneer, who is constantly experimenting, trying to
be first to find an application to promising ideas and designs. He is
mindful of the causes that have led to the present point, therefore he
knows what needs to be done next. Through his own actions the LIE is
able to prompt other people to demonstrate their talents and major
abilities. He can be of service and help others if this will open up
positive prospects and create potential for the future. Situations of
uncertainty and lack of direction do not exist for the LIE. By this the
LIE compensates for the problematic spot of the ESI, who is poor at
discerning the potential of a person, what can be expected from him or
her in the future, what he or she is capable of doing in specific
situations. The ESI struggles and retracts if he has to handle a lot of
general (intuitive) information that contain ideas of deep context. The
LIE easily orients in such situations: he presents his own ideas, offers
critiques, defends promising ideas and initiatives and prospects that he
is able to spot. In addition, the LIE negatively refers to people's
vices and bad habits, which earns the respect of the ESI.

.. _SEE-ILI-Gulenko:

ILI-SEE
-------

1. Ni: program function of INTp and dual-seeking function of ESFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ILI occasionally describes the future course of events for the SEE,
and does so in figurative-associative form. The ILI is proficient in
making forecasts and extrapolations: on basis of yesterday's events, he
foretells of tomorrow's. This is done if the SEE makes a request for
such information or if the SEE is in a bad mood. The SEE turns to the
ILI with inquiries of the type: "What will come of this?" The ILI gives
him either positive or negative forecasts, as he sees fit, during which
he draws many associations, comes up with figurative or illustrative
explanations, provides specifics and datums, supports his narration with
gestures. The ILI as if draws an imaginative picture and then proceeds
to "read" it to his listeners. The SEE needs to know what is happening
and where, only then he feels calm and reassured. The ILI satisfies
informational requests of the SEE; he is ready to immediately answer any
of SEE's questions. However, the ILI shouldn't provide lengthy
responses, as the SEE won't listen for long and may become bored.

2. Te: creative function of INTp and activating function of ESFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Periodically the ILI extends help to the SEE over pragmatic activities,
the goal of which is attainment of prosperity and material success. For
example, SEE women often want their husbands to provide financial
support, while they would completely devote themselves to their family
and the household. The ILI should periodically bring money or other
things of material value that the ILI obtains through various channels
and contacts and usually from extensive "territory". Otherwise the SEE
will start to behave unscrupulously and unceremoniously: borrow money or
things and not return them, engage in small-scale hoarding, not be
squeamish to use any methods. The SEE feels awkward if he is viewed as
petty, thus has a tendency to be generous "on a grand scale", to make
gifts "from the master's shoulder", to bestow favors on others. Giving
gifts and providing substantial favors is a strong point of the ILI. As
a result of the combination of their efforts, an optimal state is
reached.

3. Si: role function of INTp and ignoring function of ESFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In making new contacts and acquaintances, the ILI tries to play a role
of a well-mannered, cultured, intelligent person. Courtesy, chivalry,
good manners should be shown in interaction with SEE. If a relationship
between them has been already established, this will give it a spark of
novelty, rekindle it, give it an attractive effect. The ILI must be
prepared to receive guidance over his role function from his dual. The
SEE loves freshness and cleanliness and demands this of the ILI, that
the ILI should look after himself, keep his clothing new and fresh. The
SEE also counsels the ILI on how he should behave to make an effective
impression, how to conduct himself in society.

4. Fe: vulnerable function of INTp and demonstrative function of ESFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The SEE doesn't like it when the ILI actively pours out his emotions. He
prefers that the ILI quietly sits with a serious and somewhat
melancholic look in his eyes. The ILI himself needs to have emotional
stability to be able to work. He enjoys relaxing and spending his time
in a meditative state during which he can contemplate about the sublime,
the wholeness of the inner world, and so on. The SEE is able to protect
and shield the ILI from clamorous, boisterous emotions. Questions and
discussions on this aspect are not appropriate; they can destroy these
dual relations. The SEE should without any questions protect the ILI
from any external turbulent pressurizing emotional influences by means
of absorbing and dissipating them himself.

5. Se: dual-seeking function of INTp and program function of ESFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The SEE periodically makes statements about need to proceed forward, to
act immediately and decisively, to overcome any difficulties, etc. The
ILI attentively listens to these "program" statements and relates to
them with understanding, occasionally turning to the SEE for advice over
this function: "Who is able? Who has the means?" The SEE shouldn't be
advised on this function; he will hardly tolerate this. Approaching him
from the position of superiority may lead to competitive demonstrations
from his side. Externally the ILI should follow the SEE in everything
and submit to his will, while internally he may object and disagree.
Main thing is to agree with everything that SEE says, following the
principle: "Listen - but later do everything your own way." When there
is open verbal exchange of information on this channel, the ILI plays
the role of the one who is being led.

6. Fi: activating function of INTp and creative function of ESFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ILI interacts with people at short personal distances, unconsciously
seeking their good predisposition. He feels uncomfortable on this aspect
when he needs to attract the attention of a larger group and deal with
many people, because then he will have to be courteous, well-disposed
and attentive towards everyone. The SEE periodically sets larger
interpersonal distances via his own actions: by being provocative and
being able to draw the attention of a large number of people, by being
able to "control" the social space. If the assertiveness of the SEE,
that at times turns into aggressiveness that doesn't leave people alone,
is not balanced by ILI's patience, loyalty, and tolerance, the SEE is
able to cause major social rifts and evoke polarized evaluations of his
own activities. SEE's strong point lies in his ability to rally a large
group of people against something. The ILI smooths over the abruptness,
disturbance, and edginess caused by SEE's activities with his own tact,
foresight, and diplomacy.

7. Ne: ignoring function of INTp and role function of ESFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In contact with other people, the SEE plays a role of a kind,
sympathetic, responsive and sensitive person. In women, this often
manifests as fondness for animals. The same kindness and tenderness
should be shown towards the ILI: refer to him with gentle words and
nicknames, show your sympathy, caress his hand, etc. This will renew and
reinforce your relationship. Smile at him and be prepared for an
intimate conversation. Show understanding and compassion. The SEE needs
to be ready to receive advice from his dual over this function. This
advice usually comes in the form of: "Don't waste your time on just any
person", "Don't try to cater to him", "Don't spend yourself on this",
"You're only wasting your energies, better save your forces and take a
break", "Nothing will come out of this, there are no prospects here".
The SEE needs to listen to remarks of this kind and carefully consider
ILI's advice regarding his own actions and plans.

8. Ti: demonstrative function of INTp and vulnerable function of ESFp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The logic and the objective evaluation of everything that occurs within
society the ILI takes onto his shoulders. He comes along with the SEE to
talks, seminars, meetings, interprets various reports and documents,
signs the papers. In actions, the ILI manifests his logic that is very
meticulous (up to pedantism): all his work is done scrupulously and
carefully, by going into all the details. The ILI also takes care of the
logical organization of the household; for each job he keeps a set of
tools. The SEE poorly picks up on large scale trends and major
paradigms. By demonstrating his helplessness in these matters, the SEE
distracts the ILI from minor issues and re-focuses his attention on
problems of strategic nature, for instance: what is of high priority and
needs to be done now, and what can be postponed until later. Without
such support, the SEE takes up too many activities and tasks and doesn't
bring them to completion.

.. _IEE-SLI-Gulenko:

SLI-IEE
-------

1. Ne: program function of ENFp and dual-seeking function of ISTp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The IEE periodically makes "program" function statements concerning
various qualities and characteristics of people. He is interested in
talented and extraordinary individuals and distinguishes them with
compliments. The SLI is seeking to receive this type of information and
makes unconscious requests for such evaluations from others. He enjoys
it when other people are complimented and praised for their merits, even
though he doesn't outwardly show this. IEE's enthusiastic stories full
of interesting commentary and notes about people are perceived as
insightful and thoughtful by his SLI companion. The SLI himself has
latent potential and capabilities that can be developed with periodic
verbal support and guidance from the IEE, who is perceptive of them.
However, the IEE also has a tendency to exaggerate and make even minor
qualities seem like major potential and remarkable prospects. The SLI
provides his dual with adjustments over this function, encouraging him
not to overestimate people's prospects but to be realistic and see
things for what they are. The IEE is much better at discerning major
personal shortcomings and deficiencies, due to which he is a pessimist
at heart, though he rarely shows this.

2. Fi: creative function of ENFp and activating function of ISTp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If necessary, the IEE is able to create close psychological distances in
interaction. He is creative in this area and can easily find an approach
to almost anyone. He can create a small circle of close friends and
become the center of their attention. The SLI usually communicates at
extended interpersonal distances. He feels uncomfortable at shorter
distances, in which cases he may become demonstratively cold and
insensitive. Through the combination of these two opposing approaches in
communication optimal interpersonal distance is established: the IEE
periodically shortens this distance, while the SLI extends it. The SLI
is able to set distance with a person by a few phrases, a look, or a
gesture, thereby preventing any intrusion into his personal space.

3. Se: role function of ENFp and ignoring function of ISTp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Interacting with others, the IEE makes an impression of a person who is
decisive and confident in himself. He is able to mobilize his will in
extreme situations. However, due to normative nature of this function,
his assertiveness and pushiness can turn to scandalous aggression and
even physical abuse (especially for male representatives of this type).
The SLI manages and directs this function for the IEE by formulating and
providing him with appropriate advice: "Demand it from him," "Go to your
boss, and state what you want," or, conversely, "Don't push him", "It's
a private matter", "Leave this person alone". In the initial stage of
dualization, this may take the form of quarrels and stormy discussions
between them.

4. Ti: vulnerable function of ENFp and demonstrative function of ISTp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The IEE feels uneasy about bridging the physical distance. He enjoys
having ample space; crowds and clamor repel him. The SLI naturally sets
large physical distances by his behavior: by manifestations of crude and
uncaring attitudes, or by flashes of choleric temperament. In analyzing
a situation, the IEE poorly picks up on specifics and details. He sees
only the major aspects of anything. After he figures out the main
trends, the IEE doesn't know which relevant details should be added to
complete the picture. It is often the case that he analyzes things only
superficially and not in sufficient depth. The SLI takes on
implementation of this function, but he doesn't openly draw IEE's
attention to it, i.e. he doesn't attempt to criticize or lecture the IEE
on this aspect. The SLI never starts work right away if some specifics
haven't been worked out. Once he has taken up a job, then he does it
well, scrupulously and with great tenacity moving towards the end
result. In this dyad the SLI takes on performing the work that is
painstaking and meticulous, thereby relieving the IEE from it, and copes
with it without difficulty.

5. Si: dual-seeking function of ENFp and program function of ISTp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The SLI sometimes makes "program" function statements the keynote which
is the necessity for convenience and productive work. The SLI
prioritizes convenience and envisions the general outlines of creation
of such conditions, while the IEE takes care of additional aspects.
Through the combination of both of these approaches, together they reach
the optimum in matters of aesthetics and appearance, health and
recreation, learning methods and artistic expression. If the IEE does
not receive such advice, he presents demands to those around him for
splendor, for romantic and unusual experiences, a carnival of all that
can satisfy his curiosity and thirst for thrills. Without the sensing
"program" of the SLI, the IEE can get involved in hazardous adventures
and take excessive risks for minor gains.

6. Te: activating function of ENFp and creative function of ISTp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The IEE is expecting to receive information formulated in a simple and
easy to remember form. Precisely this form of statements he receives
from the SLI, who expertly supplies the IEE with explanations and
provides pertinent examples. The IEE feels uncomfortable if someone
implies that he is stingy or that his interests are self-serving. Thus
he can be ostentatiously generous and extravagant, throw away unused
items, spend large sums of money on a whim, etc. This quality is offset
by the practicality and efficiency of the SLI, who knows how to do
something with the minimum of effort and the maximal return, and who
won't do anything if it's not beneficial or useful. The SLI periodically
reminds the disorganized, spendthrift IEE of what would be a reasonable
approach and of standards of utility. When the IEE sees the main
direction of useful activity, he is then able to inspire SLI to work.
The SLI does his work often in an tangential and frugal manner. He is
able to adapt anything to his use and makes the most out of the
available close-at-hand resources to extract benefit from them.

7. Ni: ignoring function of ENFp and role function of ISTp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The IEE subconsciously feels the flow of time and gives advice
concerning the potential future outcomes. SLI, who is characterized by
skepticism and often shows little faith in the future, is in need of
such advice. The IEE serves as a director of this function by orienting
the SLI for the right attitude towards his work, by inspiring and
uplifting him thereby eliminating his excessive pessimism, and by
constantly pushing the SLI towards useful activity with advice such as:
"It will all be fine", "Everything is still ahead", "There are no dead
end situations". IEE's insights are often provided in a concrete form by
means of specific explanations on how to behave or what to do in some
difficult life situations.

8. Fe: demonstrative function of ENFp and vulnerable function of ISTp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The IEE constantly supplies emotions that correspond to the current
events. He reacts to the changes of external situation appropriately and
with significant emotional contrasts, thereby creating an elevated
emotional background by his smiles, charm, artistry and sociability. In
such an environment, the SLI no longer feels worried about the nuances
of emotional displays, which come to him with difficulty. On the
emotional background that the IEE creates, SLI's emotions don't seem
rude or inappropriate. The IEE doesn't openly criticize or attempt to
draw SLI's attention to his poorly managed inner moods; he doesn't try
to penetrate into SLI's soul. All steps and actions that require subtle
emotional responses are taken on by the IEE, who sees SLI's inner
vulnerability, his predisposition to deep personal anguish, and
subsequent shocking emotional displays.

.. _LSE-EII-Gulenko:

EII-LSE
-------

1. Te: program function of ESTj and dual-seeking function of INFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The LSE strives to be engaged in activities that are useful and rarely
takes up doing anything that is not beneficial. Evaluations of the logic
and rationality of actions constitute the keynote of the "program"
function statements of the LSE. The LSE accumulates factual information
from different areas of life and presents this information in form of
clear-cut logical statements. Such information is necessary for the EII,
who is somewhat distant from such matters himself, for the review and
adjustment of his own notions and ideas about life. LSE's activities
often take the form of digressive attainment of material gains. The EII
helps him to streamline his approach and make it more focused and
direct, thereby saving his energies. Among many winning strategies the
EII helps the LSE choose the one that has the greatest potential to
bring the most benefit. Additionally, the EII makes adjustments to LSE's
statements drawing his attention to less practical aspects of life,
thereby providing a balance between material and immaterial interests
within this dyad.

2. Si: creative function of ESTj and activating function of INFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The LSE periodically invests efforts into creating convenience and
pleasant experiences. This includes acquisition of high-quality items,
organization of enjoyable leisure activities, provision of nourishing
food, etc. The LSE doesn't indulge in the products of his efforts
himself, but instead seeks to provide them for someone else. He likes
arranging surprises and making unexpected gifts. The EII is in need of
such substantial demonstrations of care and attention. The EII is able
to provide care himself, but only at the level of details and minor
tasks, such as maintenance of cleanliness at home and taking care of
daily chores, thereby showing his love and devotion in small measures.
The EII experiences anxiety and awkwardness when he receives large doses
of experiences, for example, he feels anxious and uncomfortable dressing
in bright attention catching clothes and going out to a public place, or
when his appearance is being examined before everyone. The views of LSE
and EII also coincide on the level of domestic upkeep, for example,
"things should be put back in their place after they have been used",
"there shouldn't be extraneous objects on the table", "clothes and shoes
must be of good quality", etc.

3. Fe: role function of ESTj and ignoring function of INFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The LSE keeps his emotions to himself over his role function. He
controls his behavior in dealing with others, tries to extinguish any
emotional outbursts that may interfere with productive activities.
However, his emotions accumulate to the point that he can no longer
contain them, and then he suffers from periodic outbreaks of rage. This
is especially characteristic in extreme situations, or if someone
unceremoniously criticizes his actions, style, or work. The EII serves
as the director of this function, giving advice that encourages the LSE
to discharge and relax emotionally, urging him not to get upset over
trifles and worry excessively, and to view others in a more positive
light, by making statements such as: "Try to make amends with him", "You
didn't understand him", "Try to calm down", etc. If the LSE does not get
such advice and hear such emotionally supportive and comforting
statements, he lives in a state of constant strong nervous tension.

4. Ni: vulnerable function of ESTj and demonstrative function of INFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The LSE poorly recognizes and differentiates the flow of time,
especially changes of major time periods, therefore he experiences
difficulties planning his activities: typically he starts preparing well
ahead and still may not finish everything on time. He has a tendency to
arrive at events well before the start such that he has some time to
prepare in advance. He orients particularly poorly when he has to deal
with future events, and dislikes questions on this topic (e.g. "and what
will you do tomorrow?"), is conservative in his personal views, and
often mistakes the desired for the real. The EII does not try to
verbally criticize or lecture the LSE over this function. He has an
innate skill for planning and is able to apportion events along the axis
of time to avoid congestion and overloads; moreover, the EII delegates
the bulk of the work to be done closer to the end of the process, thus
compensating for his dual's inclination to start on everything well
ahead of time. If the LSE does not receive this kind of support from the
EII, he usually overburdens himself with work and activities, and then
his performance becomes sub-optimal.

5. Fi: dual-seeking function of ESTj and program function of INFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The LSE is subconsciously expecting to receive information of
ethical-didactic content and form concerning the relations between
people and what they should be like. He typically communicates with
other people at large psychological distances and notices only those
attitudes that are expressed in an overt and blatant form. The EII
supplies him with this kind of information, periodically making
statements from his "program" function regarding regulation of
relationships. The EII provides his ethical program based on concrete
aspects of behavior, which is then generalized by the LSE and taken into
account in his own actions. If the LSE does not receive such ethical
"program", he falls to contrasts, showing kindness and courtesy towards
strangers alternating with severity and even rudeness towards people who
are close with him.

6. Ne: activating function of ESTj and creative function of INFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The LSE poorly discerns where there is major potential and where there
is little of it. Thus he is often unsure whether or not he should extend
his support or hire someone, not being able to perceive the extent of
the potential. He feels uncomfortable if he demonstrates positive
attitude towards a person in advance. The LSE presents a subconscious
demand to all people around him: "Show what you're capable of!" The EII,
on the contrary, actively pays attention to other people, and treats
them with consideration and preemptive kindness and goodwill. He is able
to perceive potential and promising qualities in others as well as
encourage their further development with supportive actions. By allowing
other people to show their capabilities and merits over concrete
activities, the EII alleviates LSE's doubts concerning them. If the LSE
does not receive such feedback and help from the EII, he may be seen as
an insensitive and dry man; feeling this, he is inclined to occasionally
show ostentatious displays of his caring, for example, arrange for a
welcoming dinner or a reception party.

7. Ti: ignoring function of ESTj and role function of INFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When the EII is curious about some topic, he studies it in great detail
and meticulously analyzes every aspect. His role function needs verbal
adjustment from the LSE, who has an innate ability to distinguish
important aspects from minor ones, to invent new methods of
classification, and to create an objective picture of events. In contact
with other people, the EII tends to keep at close physical distances. He
strives to be objective and fair, even over minor things. His even,
emotionally inexpressive face encourages others to approach him and
impose their company. The LSE regulates this distance insisting that the
EII should increase it by supplying commentary of the type: "What do you
need him for", "It's not worth it to get involved with her", "Don't
invite anyone over to our place tonight", etc. This function also comes
into effect when the LSE needs to console the EII. In such cases, from
LSE men one can hear such phrases in the manner of: "What should I do
with him?" "I will beat him up, splatter his face", etc. the gist of
which is the destruction of structure.

8. Se: demonstrative function of ESTj and vulnerable function of INFj
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The LSE unconsciously and continuously exerts volitional pressure on
people who don't meet certain criteria or rules, or fail to carry out
their tasks and responsibilities. Sometimes he displays excitability,
flashes of hot temper, and willingness to argue on any subject even if
he doesn't understand it very well. The LSE is especially intolerant of
aggression: to an attack he responds with counter-aggression. Countering
this kind of pressure is only possible through steady and calm
stubbornness. The EII experiences difficulties with exerting pressure on
other people people and forcing them to do what is necessary, and with
securing and defending his space. Protection of the inner space and
making demands of others the LSE takes onto his own shoulders, promptly
responding to any encroachment or hostile advances. At the same time he
doesn't draw EII's attention to his weakness in defending his interests
in the physical realm. The LSE takes on the responsibility for active
protection of vital interests of this dyad.

Source
------

-  `<http://socionic.ru/index.php/2010-10-03-13-03-51/755-gyugo_-_robesper_gulenko>`_
-  `<http://socionic.ru/index.php/2010-10-03-13-03-26/765-don_kihot_-_dyuma_gulenko>`_
-  `<http://socionic.ru/index.php/2010-10-03-13-04-26/789-jukov_-_esenin_gulenko>`_
-  `<http://socionic.ru/index.php/2010-10-03-13-04-51/737-gamlet_-_maksim_gorkii_gulenko>`_
-  `<http://socionic.ru/index.php/2010-10-03-13-05-52/762-djek_london_-_draizer_gulenko>`_
-  `<http://socionic.ru/index.php/2010-10-03-13-05-25/796-napoleon_-_balzak_gulenko>`_
-  `<http://socionic.ru/index.php/2010-10-03-13-06-25/747-geksli_-_gaben_gulenko>`_
-  `<http://socionic.ru/index.php/2010-10-03-13-07-04/801-shtirlic_-_dostoevskii_gulenko>`_

Additional Links
----------------

* :doc:`Duality observations <dual_observations>`
* :doc:`Duality Descriptions by Meged and Ovcharov <dual_meged>`
* :doc:`Making Duality Work by Meged <making_duality_work>`
* :doc:`Recommendations for Harmonization of Relations on Level of Types and Their Accentuations by Meged <harmonization_relations>`
* :doc:`The Dual Nature of Man: Demonstration of Attitudes and Feeling in Pre-Marital Friendship <dual_nature>`
* :doc:`Relations of Duality Essays by Stratiyevskaya <dual_vera>`
* :doc:`Romantic and Sexual Behavior of Quadras and Subtypes <romantic_quadra>`
   