On Dual Relationships of Result Types by Tsypin
======================================================

| Written by :doc:`Pavel Tsypin <tsypin>`.
| `Original text. <http://real-socionics.ru/page22.html>`__


Introduction
------------

This phenomenon has been noticed for a while, that
:doc:`Process <process_result>` type dual pairs are more frequently
encountered, while :doc:`Result <process_result>` type dual pairs are
much rarer in comparison. In addition, Process (right) dual couples tend
to coexist together for a long time, while Result (left) couples often
quickly fall apart.

Why does this happen?

The hypothesis is as follows: Process (right) dual pairs have a "plus"
sign in their program (leading function) aspects. This indicates the
possibility of a gradual acceptance of a partner. Process types are
ready to accept any manifestations on their "plus" program aspects. For
the Result types the situation is completely different. The "minus" sign
in leading functions inclines them to immediately reject the person (as
"bad") or accept them right after acquaintance. However, there are no
ideal people, thus Result types frequently make negative verdicts on
their dual candidacies. The way they describe and justify it is
different: "unappealing", "mean", "unpleasant", "untidy",
"unattractive", etc. Result types seem to be always trying to shield
themselves from unpleasant perceptions and feelings, which also happens
to shield them from potential partners on grounds that they seemed
unsuitable at a first glance. Getting into details and understanding a
partner better seems uninteresting to Result types  people of these
types prefer to make quick, far-reaching assessments.

The specificity of dual relations is such that initially there is an
absence of mental resonance that would allow the people to find common
themes and become captivated with each other through conversation. Here,
what happens is an assessment of energy compatibility, which is
verbalized with much difficulty. A reliable assessment of the degree of
energy compatibility requires time, while Result type style of
communication is based on quick assessments.

Thus, Process types are oriented at making dual relationships work. How
do Result type fare?



Examination by type
-------------------

**ESE, ESFj (Hugo)**

Often characterizes his dual as: "boring", "too indecisive", "helpless",
"wimp", "unkempt", "dull person", "too quiet and monotonous". The ESE
usually feels attracted to bright, responsive, and practical partners.
Often proceeds to build relationships with SEI, LSE, LSI, and EII as
life partners.

**LII, INTj (Robespierre)**

Often characterizes his dual as: "completely unpredictable", "chaotic",
"utterly confused", "emotional dictator", "aggressive", "too
straightforward", "too stupid", "has no knowledge him/herself, but
continues to argue", "not interested in anything serious", "doesn't
leave anyone alone". The LII gravitates towards more calm and
predictable (in his view) relations and often chooses SEI, LSE, EIE, LIE
as his romantic partners.

**SLE, ESTp (Zhukov)**

Typical descriptions of his dual: "wimp", "useless", "worthless",
"failure at life", "inexperienced in life", "dead-end", "unsuccessful"
"too effeminate", "crybaby". The SLE is more interested in partners with
whom he can, more or less on equal footing, discuss and resolve
important "sensory" issues to himself  covering the uncovered
territory, making money, accumulation of material prosperity,
arrangement of his "territory", building his career. Thus, he often
chooses SEI and SLI as his partners from strategic considerations, and
also gets interested in ESI, ILI, EIE, and LSI.

**IEI, INFp (Yesenin)**

In his eyes, his dual usually appears as: "too shallow", "too
materialistic", "too appearance oriented", "uncultured boor", "vulgar
dork", "a dictator", "a man in a skirt (about female duals)", "a
martinet". Very often the IEI doesn't feel comfortable meeting his dual
and strives towards relationships that seem more soulful and
intellectually resonant to him. Often his "partners in life" are types
LII, LSI, ESI, SLI, and ILE.

**LIE, ENTj (Jack)**

The most common descriptions of his dual: "strict doll", "not a woman,
but a kindergarden teacher", "petty bourgeois", "pathologically
jealous", "total monotony", "dull and boring", "too gloomy", "can't say
a word to him/her". LIE seeks partners that won't limit his freedom, who
have a lenient outlook on his "adventures", and who won't teach him how
to live and control his every step. He often chooses EII, LSI, ILI, SEE,
and LII as his partners.

**ESI, ISFj (Dreiser)**

The perception of his dual can be characterized as following: "the
inconstancy itself", "windbag", "womanizer", "lover of extreme
situations", "consummate extremalist". ESI often prioritizes partners
who are more promising of stability and calm way of life, as well as
those who dedicate more consideration to questions of ethics and moral
behavior. Often ESI ends up pairing up with LSI, ESE, EIE, and LII.

**IEE, ENFp (Huxley)**

Their issues with perception of their dual are characterized by the
following adjectives: "nature's mystery", "lazybones", "ice queen",
"bore", "incorrigible egoist", "too quiet", "has his own agenda". Far
more attractive partners to the IEE are often sociable, open, and
emotional people. It is difficult for the IEE to reconcile with the fact
that for SLI everything soon gets boring. This is a typical
misunderstanding between a :doc:`static <statics_dynamics>` type, who
is somewhat inert in own interests and tastes, and a
:doc:`dynamic <statics_dynamics>` type, who does not wish to get stuck
and fixated on anything for too long. Thus, IEE, desiring to create a
strong relationship, gravitates towards types ILI, SEI, SLE, and IEI.

**SLI, ISTp (Gabin)**

In his eyes, his dual often appears as: "superficial", "intrusive",
"taking everything too close to heart", "chaotic", "noisy",
"chatterbox", "neurotic". The SLI does not aspire to relationships where
parameters are fixed once and for always; he needs certain freedom in
behavior. Any restrictions and bans, even if they are expressed in a
very mild form, he perceives rather painfully. Attempting to ensure
emotional comfort and privacy of personal space, the SLI is inclined to
pick EII, ESI, SLE, and IEI for life together.



Concluding remarks
------------------

1. Of course, the dual pairs of Result types are found in practice. But,
firstly, they rarely make it together to an old age; and secondly,
statistically in comparison with Right dual pairs they are relatively
rare. In any case, this article should not be interpreted in a sense
that Result dual pairs are impossible to form.

2. When two people are typed as a couple, often one of them is typed
wrong because the typer falls under the influence of "the myth of
duality" and convinces himself or herself that if one partner is LIE
then other has to be ESI. Many couples thus continue living together
under the impression that they duals, while in actuality their pair is
characterized by another intertype relationship.

3. The article lists the most common pairings for Result TIMs, but this
is not to be understood rigidly. In reality, there may be the most
"exotic" pairings of types, and moreover these unions may be harmonious
to a certain extent. There are, for example, supervision and conflict
couples who live together for a very long time. They seem to come out of
the difficult, stressful situations due to the richness of their
personal qualities. A person choosing their marriage partner focuses
mainly not on their TIM, but on their personal qualities, and therefore
is able to get along with a representative of almost any TIM if the
personal qualities of the selected partner are close and dear to him.



See also
--------

-  :doc:`Process and Result Types <process_result>`
-  :doc:`Duality observations <dual_observations>`
