EIE subtypes
===================

Ethical subtype Fe-ENFj (Fe-EIE)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The ethical subtype is internally very emotional, but usually modest and
restrained in expression of his feelings. Unobtrusive in conversation,
tries to behave according to the rules of good tone and manners.
Vulnerable and easily takes offense. In his heart and soul he often
experiences dramatic emotions, but around strangers hides and tries to
control them. It is difficult for him to truly relax, inside he is tense
and high-strung, vulnerable and quite self-loving. Has a lot of
insecurities, from which he usually suffers but tries not to show this.
Outwardly can be proud and unapproachable. Usually secretive and
careful, exercises foresight and thinks things over in advance. Somewhat
unsure in himself, but has patience and perseverance, and knows how to
attain his goals. Very demanding in requiring others to observe ethical
norms of behavior, and often cannot hold himself back from making
remarks or giving advice when he sees that someone, from his point of
view, is not behaving correctly. Characterized by swings of mood. Can be
coldly haughty, stubborn, and demanding, then soft, heartfelt,
considerate, and even vulnerable and defenseless. Holds himself with
dignity. His movements are precise, but smooth, sometimes demonstrative.
Dresses modestly and with taste, but if he wishes can look very
effective.

**Character**

Inclined to constant analysis of people and events. Thinks a lot about
moral and ethical issues. Tries to instill in others his own
understanding of various phenomena or his worldview, to help avoid
mistakes in life in general or in specific activities.

Exercises foresight and caution. Senses impending dangers, knows how to
take the necessary steps to avoid it. Inclined to dramatize events and
to warn others about possible trouble. Tries to caution and safeguard
people close to him from making wrong steps. Can show excessive
initiative, even seem somewhat imposing. With strangers he is charming
and helpful, usually tries to make a good impression. Warm and
welcoming, has a wide circle of friends, open and sincere with them, but
to a limit.

While he foresees further development of events, he doesn't like to rush
them, hesitates making a decision, wavers, weighing out all the "pros"
and "cons". Doesn't like when he is hurried. Ignores the attempts of
others to impose any other pace. In conversation, gives a lot of
attention to details.

Often takes the initiative in making acquaintances and contacts.
Oriented at correct, appropriate, polite attitude towards himself. Needs
sensitive, attentive, careful relation to his person, intolerant of
familiarity in communication. Self-loving, sensitive and vulnerable, for
a long remembers offenses and insults. Respects people not only for
their personal qualities and achievements, but also for their position
in society. Tries to understand the motives and predict future actions
of people around him, to give them timely advice.

A romantic in his soul, put feelings above reason. Emotional, with
difficulty hides his sufferings and emotions, but in deeds usually
demonstrates caution. Only after carefully weighting everything out can
make a radical decision. After that, not inclined to make compromises.
He would rather suffer a defeat than renounce his beliefs, as he has a
tendency for self-suggestion. Distrustful by nature, skeptically
oriented, critical towards the actions of others. Appreciates words, but
prefers concrete evidence of affections and practical services.
Nitpicking when it comes to his outward appearance, takes care of his
looks and his manners of behavior.

Values ??his authority and reputation of a serious person. Distrustful
of unverified information. Afraid to make a mistake, prefers to share
responsibility for some assignment or task with someone else. Proactive,
operative, diligent, seriously considers work that was assigned to him.
Does not like doing several things at once, but when he feels that he
cannot delay any longer, can with much energy and vigor complete a
significant bulk of work within a short period of time.

Usually focused on important problems, from which it's difficult to
distract him. In the interests of his project or business, turns to
other people to fulfill small requests and assignments, fearing that he
might lose sight of something important. Accurate with details in his
work, brings everything to its finish. Strives toward order and
aesthetics in everyday life. Meticulously about his appearance,
following the appearance and behavior.

Has difficulty attaining an inner balance. Due to this, is often in
suppressed mood. Overly suspicious, prone to seeing dangers, proud.
Doesn't like when he is being observed and watch, inclined to do his
household tasks when nobody can witness him. Sufficiently self-critical,
mistrustful of compliments in his address. Painfully endures criticism
of his appearance and behavior.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Very emotionally excitable, can be sharp. Shows high intensity of
emotions. Decisive and artistic. Easily given to ecstasy, high affect,
exaltation. Aristocratic in his manners. Frequently a good speaker, or a
political leader with patriotic inclinations. Internally dramatic and
spontaneous, likes to demonstrate his opinion. Outwardly he can shock
people around him by extremes in how he dresses: may looks like a
homeless person with soiled sleeves, or, to the contrary, dress very
brightly, vividly, or aristocratically extravagantly.



Intuitive subtype Ni-ENFj (Ni-EIE)
----------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The intuitive subtypes makes an impression of a serious, active,
sociable person. An original, unpredictable, creative personality.
Sociable, inquisitive and communicable. Quite emotional, vulnerable, and
impressionable. Internally tense, experiences frequent doubts and
oscillations, due to which can be unpredictable in his actions. At times
can be hot tempered and sharp in his statements. Very artistic,
emotionally uninhibited, easily and freely expresses how he feels. Well
perceptive of the moods of others and skillfully directs them. Knows how
to speak with emotion and inspiration, sometimes even pathos. Very
ironic and critical, can be stinging and arrogant. When in good spirits
he can become the center of attention of any group. Sufficiently
practical, but doesn't have enough self-assurance and confidence. At
times he dresses somewhat unusually and extravagantly, other times
simply and modestly. His movements and gusty, impulsive, but not
unconstrained, and seem somewhat inhibited.

**Character**

A good strategist, who has a real sense of his chances, capable of
selecting the right moment for making certain actions. Able to properly
distribute events over time. Likes striking up useful business contacts,
has organizational abilities. Not afraid of taking up major projects and
work, which he can't always handle due to overestimation of his
capabilities. Evaluating general patterns, selects the important
aspects, but getting distracted by new problems can postpone doing main
work.

Eloquent, a good speaker, who can speak with inspiration, expressing
various shades of emotions - from admiration and excitement, to subtle
irony and sarcasm. While at this, he may be unconsciously fantasizing,
imparting tones of sensationalism or dramaticism to his narrative. Has a
developed sense of humor, knows how to copy voices or mannerisms of
behavior of other people. Being quite demonstrative in his behavior,
he's often in the center of attention. Knows how to win over an
audience. Makes a vivid impression on others. Has the talent of
persuasion. Knows how to captivate people with his idea and become their
leader.

His boundless interest in people contributes to him expanding his social
circle. In connection to this, may spend a lot of time interacting with
people who will later disappoint him. When he is in a good mood, he is
amiable, lively, gives compliments, admires abilities of others, is the
soul of the company and readily helps people in solving their problems.
In a bad mood, he is pensive, gloomy, pessimistic, and seeks solitude.
Distrustful by nature, skeptical, critical of the actions of others.
Appreciates words, but prefers concrete evidence of feelings and
practical services.

Feels constant inner emotional tension. Needs to periodically spill out
accumulated emotions. In routine, his vitality wanes. To come out of
this state, can commit reckless actions that he later regrets. Can be
inconsistent and unpredictable in his actions. Courageous and decisive
in extreme situations.

Often idealizes a loved person and for him/her is capable of making
various sacrifices. Knows how to beautifully express his feelings. Very
sensitively feels his failures and disappointments. Independent in his
judgment and not seldom tries to justify those who are condemned by
everyone else. Quite categorical in his statements: considers that
liberalism won't help to bring order to society. Does not tolerate evil.
In defending those who were wronged or his ideas is not considerate of
authority.

Impatient, doesn't like waiting. Feels weighed down by uncertainty.
Discipline and tight control are oppressive to him. He prefers to have
creative freedom. Believes in unlimited human abilities and loves to
demonstrate his own. Interested in the mythological and occult, in
unusual mysterious phenomena, may be superstitious. A bit hypochondriac,
afraid of getting sick, but cannot systematically take care of his
health. Reluctantly talks about the topics of his own health and
appearance. Tries to dress with good taste, some times strictly and
elegantly, other times spectacularly and extravagantly, and at times
even casually and carelessly. Does not like extraneous things.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Predisposed to reflect, to experience internal doubts and oscillations.
Thinks figuratively, has an inclination towards philosophy. Not very
critical towards external appearances, undemanding in food. Reserved,
vulnerable, can seem internally broken. Speaks his opinions
unobtrusively. Responsible and punctual. He is a good teacher, mentor,
educator, who can interest his listeners. Outwardly seems calm.
Consistent in presenting his material.



Additional Links
----------------

-  `Discussion of EIE (ENFj)
   subtypes <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/4845-ENFj-EIE-Subtypes>`_
-  :doc:`Contact and Inert Subtypes by Meged and Ovcharov <contact_inert_subtypes>`
-  :doc:`Subtyping systems and related articles <subtype>`
-  :doc:`Romantic and Sexual Behavior of Quadras and Subtypes <romantic_quadra>`
