EIE Profile by Gulenko
===============================


    
General description
-------------------

The EIE (ENFj) has a deep capacity for emotions and acutely feels the
state of other people. Artistic, sublime, and romantic in his feelings.
Easily manages his external expressions, alternating between being
dramatic or assertive. He aims for polite communication, without any
crudeness, coarseness, and prodding.

The EIE warns people about impending dangers. He has a good sense for
potentially negative courses of events - prepares for them in advance,
thinks of alternative exists and options. Interested in topics related
to mysterious phenomena. Loves to spend time in solitude and to ponder
about the meaning of life, about the past and the future. Considers
problems from a global, generalized perspective.

At work his goal is to mobilize other people to do work, while the
specifics and details of it he leaves up to others to figure out. Has a
tendency to accumulate and organize information on a topic or area that
captures his interest, but rarely comes back to something he has already
learned. Will tackle major problems, but has difficulties with running
into failure. Getting absorbed by a project or some undertaking may
forget about nourishment and rest.

The EIE feels tormented by doubts and uncertainties concerning the need
to provide for himself. He poorly monitors his own physical state and
has difficulty getting rid of bad habits. Distrustful of compliments.
Dresses either in an accentuated aristocratic manner or very plainly. In
nutrition tends to mix products of opposing tastes.


Detailed description
--------------------

The EIE encompasses and manages a very wide range of emotional states.
Dramatic emotions quickly turn into comic ones or interweave together,
however, in company of strangers and unfamiliar people he can behave
calmly and hold himself with dignity. Endowed with the gift of emotional
empathy, can experience emotions of another person as if they were his
own. Expressive in gestures, gaze, intonation, and other emotional
expressions. A good actor or speaker. Continually reinvents and
reincarnates himself in some style. Often aggravates the situation and
welcomes the emotional tension that comes with this. People in his
proximity may find it difficult to dealing with his type of emotional
pressuring. The EIE cannot find peace and serenity himself; he or she
overflows with negative emotions, which can lead to emotional and mental
breakdowns.

The EIE is very perceptive of development of situations over time.
Sensing a potentially negative situation upcoming, he prepares for it in
advance and thinks about alternative solutions and ways out. Warns
others about the risks they may face. Often wavers and experiences doubt
and hesitation, which makes it difficult for him to make important
decisions. However, once the decision has been made, he will not
hesitate any longer and will not look back. Internally, the EIE is very
contradictory. He is attuned to inconsistencies between what people say
and what they do, conflicts and hypocrisy. Often interested in topics
related to destiny, fate, and other mysterious phenomena. Over time, his
worldviews may change to something diametrically opposite of what he has
previously believed.

Likes being involved in projects that bring about concrete benefits. He
does quality work and does not like to go back and redo anything. Enjoys
challenging himself and mastering difficult disciplines. By temperament
impatient and restless. Sitting in one place for a long time can even
lead to muscle spasms. Finds it difficult to relax even when he is
sleeping. Usually has superior organizational skills, however, becomes
depleted by prolonged business activity. Gives others a lot of small
tasks, but has no time to keep track of everything and becomes stressed
by this. Has a hard time working while being watched. Any quick
movements and sudden noises irritate him, however, constant mild
background sounds often improve his efficiency.

EIE often feels uneasy about any physical ailments and suffering. Has
difficulty getting rid of bad habits. In sexual matters, often falls to
extremes: from indifference to perversion. Pays much attention to his
own appearance, especially surface aesthetics that can bring him much
joy or disappointment. In nutrition, he is capriciously selective and
may combine products of opposing tastes. Can be quite unpretentious with
food, only care that it is provided for regularly. Estimates attitudes
of others by how much they are willing to do for him and how tolerant
they are of his strange tastes and habits. Does not feel well in
confined spaces. May choose the life of a recluse.

EIE is in need of a certain level of organization and order around
himself, the absence of which can even affect his physical well-being.
Living within some framework of a strict system does much good for him.
Uncertainty, unpredictability, and constant changes of schedule have
poor effect on his health. He is very keen on catching the slightest
deviation from the usual scheme of events. Relaxes over meticulous
studies that require concentration. In his conclusions is often rather
subjective and often makes generalizations that sound one-sided. He
likes systematic logic. Seeks to streamline everything, to limit it with
what seems to him as a reasonable a framework and rules, however, can
make exceptions for himself.

At times he vigorously protests against use of coarse force and
brutality. Often strives for courteous and helpful conduct towards
people, but in a fit of passion won't stop at anything. His own strength
increases dramatically in an extreme situation (e.g. panic, confusion).
In such cases, he behaves confidently. However, he becomes helpless to
counter an inappropriate use force if he has been emotionally and
spiritually broken. In such situations he resigns to fate as to an
inevitability. Only use of direct force can snap him out of hysterical
state of being. A sudden strike sobers him up from his emotional
excesses. He is in need of external help to contain his uncontrollable
emotions and reduce the grip that they have on him.

EIE is often not sure of the durability of his relationships with other
people. Thus he seeks a constant verbal or other kind of reassurance. He
treats his contestants with much jealousy and is capable of predicting
the development of their relationships over time. Criticizes the manners
and philosophical view points of others. Himself is either a loyal and
devoted partner or a Don Juan. His sore spot is the reliability of
relations with people whom he trusts. Those who have once misled him he
does not forgive. He is quick to take offense and can be vindictive.
Prefers to keep at a distance from people. Often will greatly lower his
own worth in the eyes of others, but is given into extremes and can as
well narcissistically inflate and obsess over other people.

At work can show the most unexpected talents and abilities. Desires very
much for his achievements to be praised. Gravitates towards
unconventional, sometimes shocking behaviors. Knows how to use the power
of the people as well as delegate the roles within a group. He often
makes for a good teacher and a mentor to others. His personality is
shaped by hard work. Wishes for well-being and benefit of all mankind
and is not satisfied with only local and partial solutions to the
problems. Will often take an uncompromising centrist stance on issues
that he perceives as only secondary. Looks for the most complex and
exciting enterprises. Worries a lot if he is criticized because he
perceives this as a defeat of his ideals. Has an innate feeling of own
inferiority for which he compensates by demonstrative behaviors.


Manner of communication
-----------------------

In communication EIE gravitates towards company where there are
manifestations of positive emotions, witty jokes and anecdotes. He loves
to laugh and emotionally discharge at the same time. His own emotions
have a turbulent, dramatic character. He tries in every way to restrain
himself, but quite unexpectedly for people around him can set off, jump
forward, turn all the attention to himself. In conversation often warns
other people about possible troubles and dangers. Inclined to dramatize
events, to see the world in dark colors. His speech may be full of
pathos, sometimes he speaks with a voice that is aspirating and
trembling from awe. In conversation may be quite obtrusive, cling to
people with his conversation, commenting about external events. Cannot
hold back and not express his opinions and views. With excessive
development of the :doc:`ethical component <EIE_subtypes>`, people of this
type can have dialogues with themselves, deliver a speech in public
transport. Usually possesses oratorical skill, knows how to speak
sublimely. In statements of the :doc:`intuitive subtype <EIE_subtypes>`
there are often notes of caustic humor, sarcasm or irony with a touch of
malice. The EIE skillfully combines humor with tragedy, builds intense,
captivating stories. Trusts only the information that was officially
published somewhere, and distrusts any informal ideas and theories. Pays
attention to social gossip, especially talk of "juicy" details of
personal lives of others. Loves to fantasize, can talk about and develop
the same topic for a long time. Knows how to convince people around of
their his own rightness. Inclined to "make mountains out of molehills".
Their projects are often global in nature, but start from small things.


Features of behavior
--------------------

One of the most characteristic features of EIE's behavior that allows to
confidently identify this sociotype - is the attitude towards people
depending on their position in the hierarchy of power. If a person is
lower in position than him, the EIE's attitude is coolly dismissive,
while towards higher standing people he is respectful. The EIE believes
in authority and respects the principle of "leaderism". Emphasizes the
uniqueness of the idea with which he is obsessed in the moment. Another
feature of behavior common to many EIEs is that they cannot work
side-by-side with someone in front of others. They would rather give
others all sorts of assignments and orders to send them to another
place. EIE manners, especially in an :doc:`intuitive subtype <EIE_subtypes>`, can be very idiosyncratic and distinctive in
terms of their accordance with the current norms. Sometimes he/she
behaves as a person from the last century. In their manners there is
something noble, aristocratic. The EIE is oriented at exclusively
polite, appropriate, and correct interaction, without elements of
coarseness, crudeness, and prodding. He easily takes up the resolution
of the most difficult, as it would seem, problems. For example, learning
several foreign languages ??in a short period of time. By his behavior
the EIE as if demonstrates the conditional nature of the barriers that
limit the possibilities of a human being. In this way Georgi Lozanov has
devised a method of intensive study of foreign languages ??in a short
period of time. Sometimes shows inclination to mysticism, to unusual,
mysterious phenomena, omens, and exotic religions, etc. Likes to isolate
him/herself and in solitude reflect on the meaning of life, and the
place and role of person within it.

Appearance
----------

The belonging to this sociotype is most easily determined by the face
and the manner of behavior. EIE's primary feature are sad,
gentle-relaxed, languid eyes. This is true for the :doc:`intuitive subtype <EIE_subtypes>`. For the :doc:`ethical subtype <EIE_subtypes>`,
what is notable of their look is a certain strong aspect of motivation,
obsession, or drive, which reflects their strong internal emotional
tension. The EIE's figure is often slim, with thin arms and legs. His
gait is brisk and fast - its quickness is more expressed with the
emotional component. EIEs are very agile and mobile people. At the same
time, they have poor coordination in their movements. An impression
might arise that they are purposefully showing off. Characteristic of
how an EIE holds him/herself in public - is with some majesty, even
arrogance. This impression is created at a distance, due to the fact
that the EIE hold his head high, looking bit above and beyond the person
in conversation. EIE's clothes is often disharmonious. Frequently, their
accessories are not matched well. Their jewelry, for example, may not
match the general style of their clothing. As a rule, there is one
detail that catches the eye that does not harmoniously tie in with their
overall look. Though by itself this detail seems to be perfectly normal.
Being perceptive of this, people of EIE sociotype are usually picky
about their appearance and dislike when it is being evaluated.


As a subordinate
----------------

| **Strengths**
| Emotional, keenly feels the moods of others. Is often able to
  eloquently express own sentiments, from the most sublime emotions to
  subtle irony. Can inspire people with their emotions and make them
  follow him. Worried about the dangers that lurk within unfolding
  situations and is able to take the necessary steps to avoid them.
  Farsighted and shrewd, knows how to properly distribute the events on
  the time plane. Believes in the limitless possibilities and abilities
  of man. Tries to understand the motives of others, in groups usually
  occupies positions of educator and mentor. Punctual, has a developed
  sense of responsibility. Usually has a broad humanitarian interest.

| **Problem areas**
| Has much difficulty achieving inner balance. Inclined to
  over-dramatize events. Self-immolating, vulnerable, pays close
  attention to attitudes of others toward himself, transgressions
  remembers for a long time. Does not like being interrupted and rushed.
  Very sensitive to failures and disappointments. Is very categorical in
  his judgments and conclusions, not inclined to compromise.
  Aristocratic by nature, can admit extremes in clothing and behavior as
  a means of self-expression (extravagance or conversely negligence).
  Likes to multitask. Distrustful of unverified information. Sensitive
  to criticisms about his appearance and habits in everyday life. Can
  tolerate negligence in formal documents.

What cannot be expected of him:

-  Constant optimism;
-  Quick commitments and returns;
-  Sober, unemotional view of events;
-  Ability to analyze the situation in depth;
-  Democratic approach and concise clear communication.

Recommended occupations: Humanitarian sphere, where it is necessary to
promote any idea, philosophy, or religion. Can be great in sales and
insurance business, where it is necessary to emotionally engage the
customer. Performs well in sphere of arts, where it is necessary to
express emotions (theater, public speaking).


As a supervisor
---------------

The representative of this sociotype lives via an inner struggle of
emotions which from time to time tend to splash out. For others these
violent outbursts can be unexpected. Such people are often gifted with
oratorical talent, capable of lighting up others to an idea. They are
attracted to fantasy, the exotic, the romantic and sublime feelings.

The mentor is a leader-inspirer. He sincerely believes in the necessity
and usefulness of the chosen ideas, rejoices or broods over successes
and the practical implementation of these ideas. This is his main
strength as a leader-inspirer.

The leader of this type is better at solving strategic problems, because
he excels at taking the global view of the situation into account.
Particularly acutely perceives events that threaten to disrupt the
normal rhythm of work and plans. In such cases mobilizes his own forces
and capabilities. This is reflected not in concrete actions to address
the problems, but in calls to rectify the situation with him pointing
out failures in work of those who can resolve the problem. His delivery
in this case is very emotional seeking a positive emotional response.

Depending on the situation can fill the roles of the frontal leader as
well as a hierarchical leader. In the first case will make others follow
with innovative ideas. In the second will seek to subjugate the entire
organizational to the achievement of the goal. May show a tendency for
strong-willed, tough methods and apply direct pressure to subordinates
to restore and enforce order, but often prefers to do this "by proxy",
for example, using another subordinate to carry out the enforcement. In
all cases supports a hierarchically organized structure of the group.
Subconsciously subordinates his own interests to the needs of the group,
which fosters positive psychological climate. This also helps the group
to mature and achieve common goals to see their leader so committed.

Uses a variety of methods to influence subordinates and staff in
general. The most appropriate method for it - a positive incitement that
can be expressed in a smile, a comment or positive evaluation. In the
subordinate this evokes a feeling of comfort and activation of his
personal energy. However, if required this sociotype can resort to harsh
treatment. In respect to some subordinates this enhances their work
motivation. Interaction with people are built on the basis of
relationships that take account of the hierarchy of power. Himself has
respect for his superiors and requires the same from his subordinates.

When establishing business contacts focuses on the personal factor. Has
a good feel for people, their mood and emotional orientation. With
partner whom he finds displeasing prefers not to deal. Himself follows
the rules of correct behavior, but can reject them at any time if sees
them unfit for the situation. In conversation tries to create an image
of a trustworthy, reliable partner. Remains faithful to his obligations
for a long as he considers them useful for himself or his organization.

In the event of a conflict situation is uncompromising. Aggressively
defends his own point of view, even if it is contrary to generally
accepted standards. Able to take risks. Vigorously tries to achieve his
goals involving supporters to his cause.

Main characteristics:

-  Prone to solving strategic problems.
-  Able to function as frontal or hierarchical leader.
-  Establishes business contracts focusing on personal factors.
-  Business activity focused on foresight and seeing potential
   perspectives.
-  Achieves main results by the way of inspiring and emotionally
   motivating other people.
-  Does not see his directives from moral standpoint, will vary his
   methods.
-  Motives and goals: cooperative goals, his own sense of success is
   tied to the success of the entire organization.
-  Relations to law: will abide by rules as long as they do not inhibit
   his incentives.
-  Strategy: complete freedom, his own moral code is ci weighted.


Working conditions
------------------

Prefers to have creative freedom, eagerly demonstrates own abilities.
Mentor is driven by desire for uniqueness. Best performs at jobs that he
likes that allows for creative self-realization and can use his inspirer
tendencies. This job should also fulfill his requirements for personal
growth and self-improvement. So often send Mentor to all sorts of
seminars, workshops, and conferences. He likes to perfect himself and
also does a good job delivering reports. Mentor loves order and
discipline in everything, but it is difficult for him to see to this
personally. Try to be punctual, correct and disciplined in communication
with him. It will strongly help your relations. He also likes people who
can protect his interests, confidently and vigorously defend opinions.
Working with the Mentor can be pretty messy: sometimes for a while you
will not be able to get any concrete results out of him as he will be
dramatically depicting for you all the possible difficulties that will
arise. He also will try to impose on you his own strategy and his own
schedule of work. Do not yield to him in any case: divide the work into
small sequential steps, set deadlines and be strict with him about
following them through. Ask for reports on completion of each step. This
will mobilize the Mentor and make his work more organized, because it
will make him feel the responsibility.


Recommendations for self-improvement
------------------------------------

The most developed side of your personality is the ability to experience
intense emotions. You are the person with a complicated spiritual world,
full of contrasts and contradictions. For the sake of true, deep
feelings you can sacrifice quite a lot.

You have an inherent poetic nature that you can express in metaphorical
form, often dramatic, sometimes tragic-comic. You may have talent of an
orator, who knows how to use speech to ignite many people.

You can be said to be a visionary, a man of great foresight. You have a
good feeling for crises ripening within developing situations and can
take measures beforehand to avoid them. You seek to warn others about
the possible troubles that threaten them. This is the expression of the
humanitarian focus of your personality. You are a rather principled
person and do not forgive insults and humiliations. To achieve this,
you, weighing all pros and cons, are able to take the most drastic
measures. However, in some cases, your principles can be inflexible and
your decisiveness can be excessive. Aim to exercise restraint in
emergency situations, try to make decisions in a calm state.

Your main problem - the inability to avoid situations which bring you
misery and discomfort. You do not always fit easily into the society and
avoid unpleasant contact with uninteresting people. You show lack of
confidence and certainly in your tastes, inability to properly track
your own well-being.

The inability to find an inner balance with yourself is characteristic
of you. Avoid over-dramatization of the events. Discharge the
accumulated emotions in creative self-expression: singing, playing
musical instruments, theater, etc.

Do not seek to make an impression at all costs. From this your interests
or health will suffer. Dress according to weather, follow some order in
nutrition, favor healthy foods. Try to keep your dress style consistent
with the situation.

Do not be as sensitive to compliments and evaluation of your appearance.
Do not immediately assume wrongdoings. Train to work openly and in
public to stop painfully perceiving attention to your work. Try to trust
people more and avoid thinking that they mean harm to you.

Another problem areas - a desire to show yourself as an enterprising,
active man, but not demonstrating these skills in action. Do not
exaggerate the significance of your initiatives. Always ask yourself
realistically how likely is it that you will take action and whether
these actions will lead to positive results. Overcome your desires to
ignore the daily affairs, including maintenance of your home. Articulate
your problems more concretely. Do not be pushy and intrusive with
respect to others.

Your interaction with people can be difficult also because of the
manifestations of excessive formality. Avoid arrogance, be more
democratic and straightforward with people. Do not overdo it with irony
and ridicule. Your penchant for sarcasm can hurt people and turn them
away from you.
