EII Profile by Gulenko
===============================



General description
-------------------

Two of EII's main distinguishing qualities are an interest in human
values and a developed capacity for compassion. The EII tries to
maintain stable, well-wishing, and friendly relations with others. She
listens to people, alleviates their emotional stress, reconciles
arguments while remaining objective. Readily helps those who turn to her
for support. Prefers not to focus attention on her offenders and
ill-wishers and accumulate ill memories.

Although the EII is usually tolerant and accommodating, she won't
forgive betrayal and injustice. Negatively views any sort of coercion,
counters it with stubbornness and patience. Good at seeing and bringing
up omissions in new undertakings. Notices and uncovers human vices, but
formulates her findings as general tactful statements.

Prefers a quiet, stable, measured rhythm of life. Dislikes crowds, loud
declarations. In performing her work, the EII is conscientious and
meticulous, though she may be slow in operation. Demonstrates diligence,
endurance, and discipline. She is able to make herself do more than what
others expect of her. For implementation she often needs detailed
instructions on how to do a particular job.

The EII is emotionally keen and impressionable, and disapproves of
insensitivity and harshness. She is unable to coerce and pressure others
to do something, and dislikes showing this kind of assertiveness.
However if she is pressured herself, she can deliver a sharp rebuke. At
times, she is unsure of herself and loses initiative. Strongest form of
her punishment is a complete disregard of the person. Others can take
advantage of her because she finds it difficult to turn them down.

Detailed description
--------------------

The EII keenly discerns what kind of relationships exist between other
people. She knows who does and doesn't get along with whom. However, she
is not as adept at correctly discerning the attitudes directed towards
herself i.e. in what regard others hold her, due to which she may suffer
by being too gullible. The EII values honesty and basic sense of decency
in human relations. She does not forgive treachery and betrayals and
will break off all relations with those who have seriously let her down.
However, she may forgive her offenders if they sincerely repent and ask
for her forgiveness. In general, she tries to maintain stable and
friendly relations with everyone. When she is interacting with others at
a distance, she is distinguished by gentleness and precaution in
communication. Endowed with the gift of generosity. Her goodwill she
shows by supportive deeds rather than by lofty words and loud
declarations.

EII feels most comfortable in a small, familiar company. Shows concern
for the feelings and moods of people around her, readily sympathizes, if
necessary cheers them up and comforts them. She knows how to listen to a
person, how to sympathize with her or her, how to alleviate their
emotional pain and stress. Her own experiences shares only with those
who are close to her. Internally, she is emotionally strained and
nervous. Although she is able to control her own emotions, occasionally
she needs to have an emotional release. In such instances, she loses
control and may breaks out in anger and indignation at her friends and
relatives, accusing them of selfish motives, lies and indifference.

The EII has an eye for all that is novel and unusual. She strives to
discover various implicit relationships between concepts, people,
objects, doctrines and theories usually of general and humanistic
nature. Like no one else she understands the impact of ideas on people's
lives. Loves learning and educating herself. Appreciates friendly
exchange of opinions and news, which creates an atmosphere of trust and
respect for the position of another person. Supports mutual
understanding in groups.

She is perceptive of people's potential and able to uncover and develop
their talents and abilities. Often has an innate talent for teaching and
educating. Treats children as adults and encourages them to be
independent and to acquire skills necessary for adult life. Able to
orient in the most difficult life situations. People turn to her for
advice to confirm that there exists a possibility of what they wish for
or what they fear.

Impressionable and emotionally responsive, dislikes insensitivity in
communication. Unable to force anyone to do anything against their will,
and may respond sharply to any attempts to influence her by coercion and
brute force. In such situations the EII flares up, and explicitly and
poignantly expresses her negative attitude. Becomes very irritated and
disturbed when she has to deal with those who oppose her. Although she
feels very nervous in extreme situations, she pulls herself together and
acts decisively, especially if the situation touches dear to her people.
A wave of emotion rolls over her when the situation is over.

The EII better than others anticipates the ripening of conflicts. She
draws attention to negative emotions in others and expresses her
disapproval, but is unable to discharge the atmosphere and prevent these
conflicts from happening. Very sharply experiences any dramatic and
negative events in the lives of other people, even if they aren't
related and didn't directly involve her.

Assesses her appearance critically. Does not like it when someone
imposes on her what to wear or how to look, although appreciates
approval and advice regarding how she looks. Avoids bright clothing that
makes her stand out. Her mood is highly dependent on her state of
physical well-being. When she is surrounded by inconveniences and
unpleasant environment, if she is sick or uncomfortable, her spirits
fall and she gets taken in by pessimism. If people who are close to her
become sick, she will take care of them, but needs for this to be
acknowledged and understood, otherwise she may feel offended although
she won't say anything.

Knows how to make herself be disciplined and operative. Conscientious,
even though she can be slow in carrying out her work. Meticulous,
demonstrates attentiveness in dealing with details. Adheres to her
commitments. Works calmly, without noise. Tries to objectively
understand the situation, analyzes facts without emotion. However, finds
it difficult to express her understanding in analytic language. In a
formal setting is usually somewhat reserved. Does not like to show her
attitudes among unfamiliar public. Resolves difficult problems due to
her ability to be patient.

Cannot sit still and idle about when others are doing something. Doesn't
need to be motivated to action - the best way to inspire her to do some
work is on personal example. Experiences real pleasure from partaking in
well-organized projects. Chooses a partner who inspires her to useful
activity, and not the one who would shield her from dangers and take
away responsibilities. Likes it when someone else helps her to
rationally arrange her activities, her household and office, thus
eliminating any useless expenditures of efforts. Appreciates advice
regarding the use of various household items. There is no need to give
her long introductions to what she is doing; she will easily find the
needed information herself. The main thing is that she has all the
supplies already at hand. Has a tendency to over-work herself and work
extra hours. Grateful to those who take care of her, who can alleviate
her stress and tensions, who are attentive to her rest and health.

She lives her life and works at a measured pace. Dislikes prolonged
delays or rushing too much ahead. Finds it difficult to adapt to a new
working rhythm. Intolerant of empty expenditures of time. Will not wait
for or tolerate someone who is irresponsible. She herself is usually
punctual and strives to complete her assigned work by the deadlines.
Easily spares her time for productive work. Evaluates how much effort
has been invested by the quantity of time that has elapsed. Knows how to
estimate how much time should be spent on a task or on given person.
Draws a line between professional activities and leisure time. Does not
like talkative people who devote too much time to discussing trifling
issues. Tries not to distract others from their activities by empty and
minor inquiries.

Manner of communication
-----------------------

The EII likes to watch people, assessing the emerging relationships, and
later joining the conversation. Himself is not inclined to initiate.
Certain sharpness, touchiness, resentment, inherent to the EII,
especially of :doc:`ethical subtype <EII_subtypes>`, make him not very
comfortable in communication. His didactic or moralizing tone, his
monotone voice, quench any playful and happy mood, orient people at more
serious considerations, as if forcing them to think about all the bad
things that happen in this world. The most characteristic feature of
this sociotype notable in communication - is his "confessionality".
People often turn to him for advice and consolation in difficult periods
of their life, pouring out their souls. The EII doesn't push such people
away but is ready to listen to them for as long as is necessary, giving
words of consolation. His own personal time he does not consider while
at this. Tries to sort out and understand everything objectively,
impartially, putting emotions aside. After this he logically leads a
person to the necessary conclusion. Due to his inflexible position, he
is sometimes perceived as a naive, incapable of living like everyone
else person by people around him. He indeed has difficulty with being
crafty, with adapting his position to others or playing the necessary
role per the situation.

Features of behavior
--------------------

One feature of EII's behavior that helps to identify this sociotype - is
readiness to be of help to people close to him, with his care shown not
only by words but also by deeds. This is especially true of people who
have gotten into difficult life situations. The EII often tries to
mediate between people. He as if puts himself between the warring
parties and attempts to keep good relations with everyone involved, by
which he often draws fire to himself from both sides. Cannot pressure
people, shout at them, goad them to activity by means of aggression. His
punishment is completely ignoring a person. The person won't be noticed
for as long as they don't admit their guilt and ask for forgiveness.
Another feature of EII's behavior is conscientiousness in performing a
particular task. The EII does everything thoroughly, with high quality.
He can sit still and study or work for a long time. Sensitive towards
organization and order. Cleans his home, carefully folding things
together (women). Likes to live as a leisurely, measured pace of life.
Tries to prepare and do his research in advance. Can generally be relied
upon. Does not like to stand out. When others work, he also works
side-by-side. If others are resting and sitting about, he also rests.
Cannot spend a long time in an isolated, confined space.

Appearance
----------

The most reliable characteristic which allows to identify EII sociotype
by appearance - is a dispassionate face. The classic features of his
appearance resemble the faces of saints and martyrs from ancient icons.
EII's nose is often straight and elongated, not protruding much above
the plane of the face. The face itself is usually of the correct oval
shape and may show notes of suffering. His face never shows any
boisterous positive emotions. It can only smile. At a distance, the
expression on EII's face seems to show a silent reproach towards
everything negative that is happening around him. The same is expressed
in the tone of his voice. The :doc:`ethical subtype <EII_subtypes>` of EII
usually has a thin, ascetic figure. Movements are sharp, quite mobile.
For EIIs of :doc:`intuitive subtype <EII_subtypes>`, the figure is often
full and flabby, with somewhat awkward movements. The facial
characteristics for intuitive subtype deviate from the canonical model.
EII's gait has the following peculiarity: his feet don't get lifted far
from the ground, moving almost parallel to the floor. Due to taking
small steps his gait appears festinating. In the way the EII dresses
there are observable extremes. On the one hand, he doesn't like to stand
out and prefers a modest but tasteful look (ethical subtype). On the
other hand, he can dress up very brightly, showily, following the
fashion trends. The latter is typical for EII of intuitive subtype.

As a subordinate
----------------

| **Strengths**
| Well versed in human relationships. Strives for self-improvement and
  erudition. Shows interest in topics of ethical and general nature.
  Takes notes of the abilities, talents, and potential of other people.
  Shows understanding and tolerance. Can go for a compromise to maintain
  harmony. Responsive and attentive. Accepts people for who they are,
  with their weaknesses, and does not try to change them by force.
  Stable and persistent in her affections. With understanding refers to
  the feelings and turbulent emotions of others. Offers emotional
  support, but if that does not work will patiently wait until the
  person calms down on her or her own. Likes aforethought, care, and
  thoroughness in everything. Scrupulous in her work. Operative,
  conscientious, punctual. Strives to adhere to principles of humanity
  and justice.

| **Problem areas**
| Impressionable and vulnerable. Easily becomes unnerved and unstable in
  stressful situations. With difficulty tolerates being misunderstood
  and conflict. Poorly tolerates loneliness, needs attention of her
  friends and relatives. Very meticulous, does not like to burden others
  with her requests. Becomes bogged down by the details of her work,
  thus often overworking herself. Has difficulty assessing the quality
  of her work and the time she has spent on it. Trusting to the point of
  being gullible, which she comes to regret later when someone abuses
  her kindness. Quite self-sufficient. Can be phlegmatic in her
  behavior. Does not venture into what doesn't concern the scope of her
  interests.

From EII one cannot demand and expect:

-  Enterprising spirit and initiative in production;
-  Decisive, resolute behavior in emergency situations;
-  High state of mobilization;
-  Quick completion of work that doesn't inspire much interest in her;
-  Organizational skills.

Recommended occupations: Educational work with young people,
psychotherapy, work in theoretical and humanitarian spheres, photography
and digital arts.

As a supervisor
---------------

A representative of this sociotype is usually a positive and patient
individual. It would be difficult to envision her manifesting turbulent
emotions. In all cases, she is somewhat reserved, becoming, having an
impassive expression on her face, which can be misleading concerning her
feelings. In actually, she is able to feel and empathize deeply.
Hervattention is turned to ethical issues. Adherence to her inner
ethical framework becomes the definitive factor in the aims of her
actions.

| Supervisor-educator
| A person claiming the role of an educator must be oriented at
  universal human values, have strong convictions, be patient and
  persistent. These qualities are inherent to the "Humanist" in function
  of a manager.

A person of this type is set to resolve strategic objectives. Solving
problems concerning production for her is inextricably linked to
establishing and maintaining positive relations with others. She is well
versed in people's emotional bonds, notices personal qualities of
people, and on this basis accurately predicts the state of psychological
climate in her group. Very much appreciates a supportive emotional
environment in which she can work productively.

Not inclined to leadership, but in certain cases can take on the role of
the front leader. Not capable of establishing and maintaining a
hierarchical structure. Her relations to another person is shaped not by
their official status, but according to EII's own value judgments.
Therefore, she finds it difficult to establish relations with colleagues
and superiors whom she disrespects. This leads her to experience inner
discomfort and reduces her productivity. However, regardless of
experienced feelings (sympathies and antipathies) she tries to deduce an
objective assessment of relations. In communication adheres to social
norms and rules of etiquette.

In discussing various topics and issues, EII pays attention even to the
smallest details. Express her thoughts and follows the conversation in
sequential manner. EII doesn't force her opinions, rather acts by method
of discussion and persuasion. In the event of a conflict in
negotiations, she doesn't resort to volitional methods to pressure her
partner. Her two main types of behavior are adaptation and compromise.

This type of business activity is not appropriate for highly competitive
and unstable environments. Therefore, EII's style of management is
extremely rare in the spheres of material production and resource
creation. Her style of supervisor-educator is most suited to the
activities in service sector, as well as in artistic and humanitarian
fields.

Main characteristics:

-  Not inclined to claim leadership, but in some cases can act as front
   leader.
-  Establishing business contacts she focuses on personal factors.
-  Activity is focused on foresight, in advance discussion and
   precaution.
-  The system of interaction with colleagues is based on mutual
   recognition and adoption of certain values.
-  In behavior is likely to compromise. Respectful of hierarchy.
-  Identifies and cultivates talents, potential and abilities of team
   members.
-  Style of management generally abides by accepted ethical and
   professional standards of conduct.
-  Motives and purpose: benevolent, prosperity within her ethical
   standards.

Working conditions
------------------

Optimal conditions for EII is when she can calmly and safely do
something she likes independently from others. She is ill-suited for
jobs that require quick solutions to urgent problems and work in
emergency atmosphere. For this reason, EII may become the "scapegoat" in
work teams where there is a need to rapidly and effectively generate
concrete results. Instead of quickly and accurately handling concrete
tasks, she tends to overcomplicate the problem, Her favorite state is an
unfocused hypothetical reflections on the topics of being and life. If
EII is one of your employees or co-workers, you are unlikely to get her
to do something by rude pressure. She will simply withdraw into herself
and will feel upset or offended for a long time. Therefore it is best to
assign her with some specific task, which isn't key in the whole
sequence of the project, and let her quietly work on it. You can
increase her productivity by creating all conditions her needs for work
in advance and surrounding her with attentive care. If you want her to
do something accurately and on time, send her clear instructions in
advance, instruct her about all the necessary actions, and then be sure
to check that she has done everything. When interacting with the EII
remember that this type of person is not very practical and favors mercy
and compassion. She can readily assist someone who has requested for it
even to her own detriment. If you can shield and protect her from such
activities and orient her towards more pragmatic attitude, this will
optimize your interaction.

Recommendations for self-improvement
------------------------------------

Your strength lies in a deep understanding of people's values and
relationships. You are interested in the motives of actions, personal
and soulful qualities of others, their relations, which you can spend a
lot of time watching and analyzing. After prolonged study and
observation, you come closer to defining a person's character: who she
really is and not how she presents herself.

You aim to create warm and friendly relations with others. Advocate
against cruelty and abusive behavior. This reflects your humanistic
orientation. For this quality you are valued and respected by others.
Your knowledge and experience with people and relations will always help
you find your place on any team. Your other advantage that earns you the
favor of others: emotional sensitivity, kindness, ability to sympathize,
listen, and care for other people. You try to show your attitude in
deeds, not just words. Not sparing time and effort, you are ready to
help anyone who needs it.

The ultimate goal of your words and actions is creation of a positive,
harmonious atmosphere in which others can develop their talents. You are
good at comforting and mediating. You prefer not to focus on the
negative actions, faults, flaws and wrongdoings of others. Instead you
try to make them think about the moral foundation of their actions, the
moral values of their lives, and exert influence on their conscience.

The main problem that worries you is your lack of resoluteness and
assertiveness, inability to make demands of others in direct and willful
form. There is a measure of caution and timidity that is inherent to
your approach to some extent. You are emotionally sensitive to others
and don't want to seem obtrusive.

You are prudent, undemanding, modest and cooperative. When you have been
challenged, you don't always respond right away but prefer to conceal
your grievances. You can protect those who are close to you, but don't
readily do engage in this. You think that your offender needs to realize
her mistakes and repent. If she does not, you avoid having contact with
her.

A recommendation for you: develop your ability to defend yourself,
directly express your grievances, do not show mercy towards those who
take advantage of you and did not repent, don't allow yourself to be
used for anyone's personal gain. Learn to say "no". Empathize less with
strangers and pay more attention to people who are close to you.

Another one of your problems: careful and overly meticulous analysis of
any issue, topics, or task down to the last detail, which slows you down
and decreases your effectiveness. You may get bogged down by minor
details of life and of your work. Then you hardly find time for rest and
recreational activities in the company of your friends, which can
negatively affect your health. You thoroughly and deeply analyze
everything about a topic or issue that concerns you. The results of such
an analysis are not always satisfactory, due to which you can feel sad
and demotivated. You feel depressed by anything that goes beyond the
scope of harmonious personal values and good human relations.

Don't be misled by your pity, as to not later feel ashamed of your
actions and words and reprimand yourself in retrospect. Remember that
true justice does not allow for compromises with conscience.

Accelerate the pace of your productive activities, focus your attention
such that it slips by minor details and stops only on the main parts and
the essentials. Try to teach yourself speed reading - it will help you
learn to see the overall picture of the phenomenon or event. When
analyzing a subject or particular field, don't strive to disambiguate
and clarify everything. Strive to see the general picture. Knowledge of
general norms and rules will relieve you from unnecessary waste of
nerves and efforts on aspects that are of little consequence or interest
to anyone.

Additional Links
----------------

-  `Discuss this profile on a forum <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/42835-Article-INFj-The-Humanist-Profile-by-Gulenko>`_
