EII subtypes
=====================

Ethical subtype Fi-INFj (Fi-EII)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The ethical subtype appears polite, restrained, and impassive. Usually
keeps some distance in communication, at times seems cold, firm, and
unemotional. In the process of dialogue, however, this impression
gradually dissipates as he begins to sympathize and shows his desire to
help and assist. Serious, calm, and well-wishing person. Quite
insightful but reserved and rarely shares his observations. Fastidious
and tactful. Doesn't know how to joke, feels afraid of saying something
in excess. During arguments prefers to leave silently without resorting
to diplomacy. Very hardworking, meticulous, patient, and diligent.
Intolerant of violence and injustice. Consistent and firm in his
principles. Able to create comfort, decorates his home with hand-made
items. Knows how to work with his hands. Pays attention to his health
and appearance; in appearance is usually neat and prim. Rarely smiles.
His gaze seems guarded. Dresses modestly but with taste, in presence of
sufficient funds even in exquisite manner. His movements are smooth, yet
constrained. His gait is quick and light, somewhat restrained, at times
pattering. Sits straight and seldom gesticulates in conversation.

**Character**

This individual is very interested in relations between people. Values
understanding, tolerance, capacity for compromise for the sake of
harmony in relations. Attempts to be helpful, responsive, and attentive
towards everyone. Accepts people as they are; forgives their weaknesses
and does not seek to change them by force. Tries to adhere to the
principles of fairness and compassion. Predisposes others towards trust.
Can patiently listen out his conversation partner. Relates with
understanding to manifestations of turbulent emotions in others; tries
to calm the person down, give some useful advice. If this does not help,
knows how to wait patiently until the person calms down on his or her
own. Does not need verbal confirmation of feelings himself - he
understands everything without words. Stable and persistent in his
sympathies and affections. Cherishes soulful harmony, his own and that
of others. If his partner does not fully satisfy him, he departs without
much commotion and sorting out the relationship.

Achieves the goal he set before himself adamantly, sequentially and
persistently, overcoming many difficulties in the process. While
defending his interests he demonstrates principality and stubbornness.
In extreme situations, acts logically and calmly, focusing his attention
on the main aspects. Dislikes hurry and haste. Knows how to properly
distribute events and work in time and manages to finish everything by
the deadlines. Feels annoyed when having one unfinished job he is
assigned another. Tries to prepare in advance to not disappoint others.
Does not want to burden others with himself. Likes thoroughness and
solidity in everything. Getting bogged down by details can over-exhaust
himself. Operative and conscientious. Invests his soul into any job,
performs it beautifully and skillfully.

Shows little interest in anything that does not concern him and his
interests. Has developed sense of skepticism, due to which there is
certain inertness in his behavior. By nature he is cautious and
distrusting; shares his experiences only with people who are close to
him. Self-controlled in behavior, laconic, and unimposing in providing
advice. Tries to objectively understand any argument and explain to each
contestant where he or she is wrong. Laments his failures in solitude.
Finds it difficult to tolerate conflict and misunderstandings.
Restrained in showing his emotions, shows them only in a close circle of
friends. Modest and bashful; rarely voices negative comments regarding
others, instead waits for the person to feel his own fault.

Observant of the aesthetics of appearance and interior, tries to instill
aesthetic taste in others. Intolerant of slovenliness. Dislikes
discomfort and poor taste; eagerly listens to the advice of others on
such subjects. Poorly assesses the quality of his own work and time
expended on it. Responsible; disapproves of lack of punctuality and
conscientiousness in others. Often finds his calling working as a
psychologist or physician, or taking up social work of humanitarian
nature.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Unobtrusive, controlled, may be ascetic and strict towards himself and
others when it comes to ethical principles. Not given to take initiative
or display and interest in that which isn't connected to his interests,
views, and convictions. At work is scrupulous and delayed. With him it
is possible to have a talk, to pour out one's soul, to receive simple
yet good and useful advice. May be spiritual or religious, or keep to
some ethical system. Outward appearance - immersed info self, ascetic,
tense inner life is visible in his outward look.



Intuitive subtype Ne-INFj (Ne-EII)
----------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The intuitive subtype is emotional, composed, and firm. Shows
cordiality, goodwill, and friendliness toward people who are in his
favor. Closing distance with a person tries to be somehow useful and of
service. Likes to advise, to mentor, to educate others but only within
his circle. Possesses figurative and imaginative thinking and creative
abilities, can discuss various imagery, symbols, dreams. Sensitive,
vulnerable, uncertain and erratic. Prone to taking offense despite his
best attempts to hide this. Sometimes he likes to joke around in
conversation. Tries not to say unpleasant things to people, but cannot
always restrain himself and may burst out in disagreement or
indignation, but comes to regret it later. Serious and fastidious,
prefers to hold himself with some reserve and subtlety. Dresses simply,
adhering to classical styles, often conservatively. His mimicry and
gestures are weakly expressed. Speech is emotional and slightly
inhibited; its tone is often didactic. Frequently has a disproportionate
figure, often squat in physique and prone to corpulence. Gait may be a
bit clumsy and waddling.

**Character**

Seeks to understand the essence of various subjects and phenomena.
Possesses strong associative and figurative thinking and the talent of
foresight. Perceptive and insightful regarding the potential of various
projects and people, aware of other's talents and abilities. Often
displays an interest in problems that lie at the intersection of ethics
and philosophy. Very curious, loves to read and to contemplate. He is
constantly evaluating everything. Feels unsatisfied and frustrated with
work that is monotonous and routine. Strives for self-cultivation.
Defends his views on emotional basis, but tries to support his
statements with facts. Distrustful, requires sufficient evidence to
become convinced of the verity of his partner's statements.

Poorly tolerates loneliness, needs attention of people who are close
with him. Appreciates sincerity, attention to his person, and tact;
condemns discordant and abusive behavior. Quite principled; he believes
that all-forgiveness corrupts those who deserve to be punished. May
sometimes deliver a harsh rebuke for a person whom he thinks to be
guilty, but usually wavers before doing so because he is afraid of
spoiling his relations with other people and being unfair. Loves his
family; he is ready for any sacrifices for them. Very fond of small
children; though sometimes for educational purposes he is strict and
uncompromising in their treatment. At times advocates for harsh measures
and punishments.

Impressionable and emotionally sensitive. Feels truly satisfied with
himself only if he could contribute by a deed. Tries to please others by
performing a variety of services for them or giving presents, by being
generous and unselfish. Helps people not sparing his time and efforts,
meanwhile may forget about himself. Does not forgive betrayal and
treachery; in such cases may irreversibly put an end to the
relationship. Easily takes offense. Painfully and sensitively perceives
the lack of volitional, push-through qualities in himself.

Takes on many tasks barely completing them on time, thus may postpone
unpleasant or uninteresting work until later. Shows an interest in the
objective side of affairs if he has a desire to become competent in
pragmatic activities, in which case makes himself learn about procedures
and regulations. Can be happy if he finds a proper application of his
abilities.

A person of firm convictions - an idealist and a maximalist. Dreams of
being in ideal harmony with his partner in tastes, beliefs, and
passions, and becomes upset when this doesn't happen and disagreements
arise. Due to his tendency to take everything close to heart, feels
worried and agitated by slighted occasions. Prone to doubt, somewhat
indecisive and diffident. Needs an optimistically oriented partner who
can dispel his worries and uncertainties, be able to provide an
evaluation of his work and actions, shield him from unnecessary tasks
and people, and improve his mood. Has a keen sense of responsibility for
others. Demanding of himself; educates others by his personal example.
Tries to instill in other people consideration for human values. May
have an interest in occult or religious and teach himself various
divination techniques and interpretations of teachings.

His appearance is often very modest, dresses so as not to stand out.
Attempts to look tidy and well-groomed, but investing effort and time
into looking after his appearance feels like a burden for him. Often
doesn't have much interest in jewelry. Critically evaluates his looks;
negative remarks on this topic can deeply wound him. Receives
compliments in the presence of others with confusion and distrust.
Afraid of falling sick and becoming dependent on others, for this reason
tries to improve his lifestyle.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Feels people very well. Immediately feels who has similar views and
opinions to his and who doesn't. Enjoys spending time in a small circle
of like-minded people, discussing novelties in art and human sciences.
Frequently appears somewhat unsure in himself and scattered. Gravitates
towards social and humanitarian work, but can also work in service jobs.
Realizes himself well in medicine and teaching. Able to reconcile those
in a dispute and to mitigate intense situations. Creates a pleasant
atmosphere in conversation and in his house. Dresses with taste, not
seldom follows fashion.



Additional Links
----------------

-  `Discussion of EII (INFj)
   subtypes <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/7432-EII-INFj-Subtypes>`_
-  :doc:`Contact and Inert Subtypes by Meged and Ovcharov <contact_inert_subtypes>`
-  :doc:`Subtyping systems and related articles <subtype>`
-  :doc:`Romantic and Sexual Behavior of Quadras and Subtypes <romantic_quadra>`
