ESE subtypes
=========================

Ethical subtype Fe-ESFj (Fe-ESE)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The ethical subtype is courteous and amiable, but stubborn and
unyielding over important to him questions. Due to this can demonstrate
excessive persistence. Inclined to finish what he has started. Finds it
difficult to stop in timely manner, of which he may regret later. Tries
to be serious, unobtrusive, and polite in dialogue, but often exerts
strong emotional pressure upon those who, in his view, act wrongly.
Likes to take his conversation partners by the hand, to touch their
clothing. Knows how to host guests and visitors at home, but does so
infrequently because he is more interested in public work and
communication. Likes giving presents to people close to him and finds
suitable occasions and reasons to do this. Dresses in good taste, with
sufficient moderation. Gait is quick, a little jumpy. Figure is often
thin and a little angular. His face may be expressing discontent and
indignation, supplanted by a radiant smile.

**Character**

Optimistically oriented active person. Sociable, inquisitive, shares a
lot of diverse information. Friendly, not envious, able to truly enjoy
achievements and successes of others and willingly talks about his own.
With interest and in detail describes the events that have taken place
with him, or that he has heard of or read about. Enjoys discussing
social issues. An opponent of empty waste of time, so tries to fill it
with interesting experiences: visits to the movies, theater
performances, exhibitions, friends, trips to nature, and so on. Likes
capable, talented, and interesting people.

Flares up and feels an outrage when he encounters self-satisfied,
critical-minded, or hypocritical people. From sense of justice can
deliberately try to spoil their mood, even create an intolerable
environment. Disproves of poor tastes, rudeness, lack of tact. Tries to
instill good manners of behavior in people who are close to him. Often
feels outraged at lack of order and fairness. Tries to look controlled
and even, but doesn't always accomplish this. His mood changes often,
even for minor reasons.

Has a well developed sense of humor. Easily makes new contacts and
friends of personal and business nature, but has few close friends, as
not everyone can withstand his emotional pressure. Not very discerning
in business and work related qualities of people.

Somewhat conservative and cautious in new endeavors as he doesn't see
future prospects well and is afraid of making mistakes. Prefers to act
by tested methods, but at the same time doesn't tolerate routine well.
Very curious and not averse to try himself in something new. Can
hesitate before making important decisions. Willingly listens to the
advice of others, experiences doubts and fears making poorly thought out
actions. Can step back from making a risky decision at the last moment.

Lighting up by some idea, he becomes its active supporter and promoter,
tries to implement it into life, not sparing efforts nor time. Knows how
to interest and involve people, persuading them to realize what he has
planned. Shows patience and perseverance. Takes up new projects with
much enthusiasm and tries to carry them through to completion.

Not very eager to take up domestic affairs and doesn't follow particular
order or schedule. If he's not in the mood, may postpone chores or
assignments until later. He gravitates more towards social activities,
wants to benefit people. Doesn't like running late to events, which
happens rarely and only for serious reasons. Strives to dress according
to fashion, even somewhat extravagantly, but more often dresses
modestly.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Very expressive. It is difficult to withstand his emotional pressure.
Possesses high aptitude for work, however, the surges of emotions may
prevent him from being constructive and realizing his potential. Can be
very scattered, jumping from one thing to another. In communication is
direct, immediate, uninhibited. Distinguished by an explosive choleric
temperament. Outwardly may wish to draw the attention of the opposite
sex by bright clothes, which has an element of demonstrativeness.



Sensory subtype Si-ESFj (Si-ESE)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The sensory subtype is energetic, work-oriented, and practical.
Emotional and sufficiently direct, but also well-wishing, sensitive, and
responsive towards other people. Able to correct impressions caused by
his sharp statements. Self-confident, daring, and skillful in his
ability to become liked by others. Coquettish and pleasant, creates an
intimate atmosphere in conversation. Demonstrates physical tenderness,
often embraces those who are sympathetic to them. Attentive towards
people, very caring, and helpful, yet sometimes may raise a scandal if
he doesn't like something. Has a sharp tongue, is not at a loss finding
words, and is quick to respond in a conversation or argument. His
speech, as a rule, is fast and emotional. He readily voices compliments,
though sometimes with a little jab. Erratic and restless, but knows how
to relax in an interesting and pleasant manner. Gourmand, knows how to
cook well, and is hospitable. His mimicry is lively, movements are
vigorous and gracious. Dresses exquisitely, with sophistication and
charm. Often has a bit round figure. Likes expensive things, could be a
spender.

**Character**

Lively, cheerful, energetic person. Well-wishing towards other people,
courteous and helpful. A charming and interesting conversationalist,
able to understand everyone, to find an individual approach, to cheer up
with a good joke or a compliment. Well perceptive of others' moods,
sympathizes with them, tries to help by word or deed. Takes care of the
weak and defenseless, kind and gentle with children. Aesthete, a good
designer, dresses tastefully, tries to create comfort at his home and in
the workplace. Hospitable, prefers a beautiful service and arrangement,
and savory well prepared food. Likes to give gifts and arrange for
pleasant surprises.

Sociable, attentive and responsive. Persistent and straightforward in
relationships when he is convinced of his own correctness. Doesn't know
how to hide his feelings, both positive and negative. Irascible and
short-tempered, but easily appeased and forgiving. Doesn't tolerate
hypocrisy, injustice, and cruelty. Capable of actively defending his
interests and those of his loved ones, decisively rebuffs his opponents.

Hard-working, diligent, operational, and conscientious. In life, he
achieves much by his own effort not relying on other people.
Successfully takes up any practical activity and likes it when his
efforts are appreciated. In the interests of his project or his case, he
with enthusiasm visits all the appropriate centers and offices and files
all the needed paperwork. A good organizer, who tries to create the
conditions needed for effective work and encourages others to work
actively.

Frequently gets overwhelmed by work, chores, and errands, both his own
and those of others. Poorly calculates time, expending a lot of effort
on secondary and minor things. Due to this, may run out of time and not
finishing everything. Feels ashamed of such lack of organization and
tries to discipline himself. Can be overly trusting and careless. Poorly
foresees the outcome of a new venture or project. Because of this may
commit rash actions, undertake wrong steps, and regret of them later.
Doesn't always listen to the advice of others - prefers to act in his
own way.

Shows authoritativeness and rigor in business. Everything that he starts
he tries to bring to its completion. Knows how to do a lot of things
with his own hands.

Dislikes uncertainty in both professional and personal respects.
Gravitates towards stability, both at work and in his personal life.
Respects serious, reliable, goal-oriented people. Loves it when
information is presented concisely and clearly, when the important parts
are distinguished, and it is based on facts. Expresses his own opinion
when he is competent in the given matter. Tries to be credible,
authoritative, and painfully experiences criticism of his work and
professional qualities.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Aesthete, likes to bring pleasure to people around him, and to himself,
likes to give presents. Good at organizing and managing his household.
Knows how to make do even with a minimum of conveniences. An operational
person oriented towards work. Can realize himself well in management in
leisure and entertainment industries. Women of this type are good at
sewing, knitting, know how to be charming, and have a good sense of
taste in choosing clothing. Behavior is usually undemonstrative. Poorly
endures pain and bad health.



Additional Links
----------------

-  :doc:`Contact and Inert Subtypes by Meged and Ovcharov <contact_inert_subtypes>`
-  :doc:`Subtyping systems and related articles <subtype>`
-  :doc:`Romantic and Sexual Behavior of Quadras and Subtypes <romantic_quadra>`
