ESE Profile by Gulenko
===========================


    
General description
-------------------

The ESE (ESFj) is emotional and communicative. Knows how to lift the
mood, to cheer up other people. Enjoys talking about his contacts and
acquaintances. His emotions change sharply: at times he is lighthearted
and friendly, other times he is hot-tempered and angry. Pays attention
to manners and correctness of behavior of people around him.

Caring and hospitable. Knows how to create comfort from what he has at
hand. Watches for the well-being of his loved ones. Enjoys giving gifts
and doing something pleasant for others. Excellent organizer of events,
vacations and celebrations.

With difficulty contains his emotions. Nitpicks people whom he doesn't
like. Becomes very offended if his efforts are not appreciated. Quite
fussy and scattered. Constantly overloaded with things to do, many of
which can be foregone or postponed.

Poorly predicts major life upheavals and events. Expects only positive
results and outcomes, thus is often subject to stress and
disappointments from his unfulfilled hopes. Stable in his habits and
methods of spending his free time. Over-estimates how much time he has
left, and doesn't finish everything that was planned. Often starts on
important work in the last minute, which leads to unnecessary hurrying
and agitation.


Detailed description
--------------------

ESE's forte is emotional influence on people. Showing his turbulent,
sharp emotions, he is able to achieve much. Other people often find it
difficult to withstand his emotional pressuring. Discerning of the
emotional states of his conversation partner. Can raise his own mood and
that of others. Optimistic, instills in his loved ones hope for success
and positive outcome. Very sociable, easy makes contact with other
people. With pleasure talks about his friends, acquaintances, and
relatives. Although ESE usually aims for high social status, he is able
to sacrifice it for the sake of his family. A good organizer of events
and celebrations within his social circle. Sees to it that everyone is
interested and involved, draws people into conversation. Dislikes those
who are overly skeptical and hold themselves as separate and aloof.

Very caring in relations to his family and friends. Attentive and
responsive. Takes care of people who are not feeling well and those who
seem impractical and poorly adapted to life. Understands who needs what
kind of help. Won't lend a hand simply for the sake of good relations.
With pleasure receives guests. Loves holiday dinners and gatherings.
Knows whom to invite, how to behave, what to serve, how to leave a
positive impression. Practical in everyday life. Quickly adapts to a new
place. Knows how to create comfort from what is readily available at
hand. Gets rid of unnecessary things, sells them or gives them away.
Picky in his aesthetic taste. Analyzes whether the appearance of others
is harmonious. Gives thought to how he dresses, masterfully combining
various aspects of his outfit.

The ESE makes himself be active and enterprising in professional and
business spheres. Very mobile and energetic. Moves around a lot, meets
new people, makes various deals and contracts. Becomes offended if he is
considered to be unprofessional and unserious person. Quite fussy and
scattered. Often overloads himself with things to do, which very much
exhausts him. Actively and directly pushes for this interests or
projects, often makes several attempts. In life he achieves much
himself, not relying on the help of others. Makes an impression of an
agile, expeditious, and skillful person. Often thinks himself
impractical, since he achieves visible results only with much effort and
work. Does his work quickly, but likes it when he is helped with some
things. Could use outside help for running small tasks and assignments.
Aims to accomplish several interrelated tasks at the same time,
preferably in one swoop.

The ESE poorly assesses how much time is available for his activities.
Sometimes he starts on the most important task in the last minute, with
which he sentences himself to unnecessary rushing and stress.
Appreciates people who warn him about how much time he has left in
reserve. Vacillates for a long time before undertaking major,
potentially life-changing decisions. Remembers about his past mistakes,
but acts not in accord with practical experience, but by subjective
tendencies. Suppresses in himself any apprehensive feelings of
misfortunes and disasters, and instead orients himself at a positive
outcome. Due to this, many of his hopes and expectations lead to
disappointments. Impatient, dislikes waiting. Does not respect those who
run late, philosophize on empty topics, and waste valuable time.

Feels himself calm and confident when there is order around, a system in
place, and no unclear questions. Absorbs complex information only when
it gets presented in a clearly structured form. Often a conscientious
person, has a responsible attitude towards his assignments and duties,
and cannot relax if he hasn't done something as it should be done.
Builds his relationships on basis of trust. Does not like having to
prove something, to explicate, to repeat many times. Expects others to
simply understand his problems and concerns. He is calmed by an
objective and impartial analysis of a confusing situation, while what he
concretely needs to do he will figure out himself. Searches for ways to
rationally organize his household as well as leisure time activities.
Has a good sense of his body. Tries to find methods to avoid sickness or
to conceal any physical imperfections.

Readily supports new, promising initiatives. He needs alternatives that
fuels his enthusiasm and stimulate him to activity. Feels very pleased
when his abilities and energy find a proper application. He feels very
much suppressed by inability to do something. Needs others to notice and
to appreciate his efforts and provide him with encouragement. Provides
emotional support for people who walk their own path, not following the
beaten track. Himself can light up with an idea and try to push it
through, to promote it. Strongly desires to be needed by someone. Offers
many ideas for organization of events: conferences, speeches,
presentations, holidays, celebrations, advertising campaigns, etc.
Avoids cliches, commonness, and vulgarity.

The ESE critically evaluates relationships between people. Openly
condemns rudeness and boorishness. Demands attentive and proper relation
to himself. Likes to teach ethical behavior to other people - how to be
courteous, show good manners. With others usually keeps at short
personal distances. Dislikes arrogance, pomposity, affectation, although
himself strives to create an impression of aristocratic courteousness.
Grows angry when someone gets into disputes with him. In such cases
attempts to shame the person, to evoke feelings of guilt in them. If
such persuasions are not effective, can start a scandal even. Does not
tolerate when someone looks down on him or speaks with him in a haughty
tone. Distinguished by a painful sense of fairness. Sees to it that no
one is offended or overlooked. For the sake of his loved ones can go for
any ventures.

In business relations, he is persistent and nitpicky. If a person does
not do the way he thinks it right, he will be reminding them about it,
not leaving him in peace until he gets his way. Very self-sufficient and
independent in his business person. Knows how to defend his interests
and tries to not miss out on benefits. Initiative-taking. Constantly
prods other people towards activity and tries to manage and guide their
actions. Slowness, halts in activity irritate him. Does not purchase
anything just because. Purposefully searches for a product or a seller.
Makes his purchases quickly, but always tracks that the items correspond
to their prices.


Manner of communication
-----------------------

The most characteristic feature of ESE's manner of communication - is
heightened expressive emotionality. He likes to talk of something
emotionally, with details. One of his favorite topics of conversation -
is art. Talks about the plots of movies, plays, and books. His favorite
movie or performance he may go to watch several times. In interaction
this sociotype is easily determined by the expression of negative
emotions. Periodically, the ESE openly expresses his indignation, often
over minor reasons. He rapidly flares up in temper, but calms down just
as quickly. This show of emotions cannot be explained by objective
logic: from some detail he can create a drama, but at the same time not
notice an almost direct insult. In a conversation, pays much attention
to ethics, good manners. Likes to give norms ethical evaluations, to
analyze who acted well and who acted poorly. Tracks that the courtesy
norms are being followed. If people don't follow ethical norms of
interaction, the ESE puts pressure on them by means of negative
emotions. Because of this, he may be viewed as a scandalous, quarrelsome
person. It's not easy to get along with him. For most people he proves
to be too demanding, too linear and straightforward. Explains his
opinions in detail, several times, asking his companion whether he or
she has understood him. With this he might offend his listeners, who may
think that he regards them as stupid. The ESE likes to talk about his
social connections, contacts, and acquaintances. Easily creates them
thanks to his sociable and friendly nature towards his conversation
companions. With long-term constant relations requires selflessness from
others.


Features of behavior
--------------------

In behavior the ESE is rather demonstrative. When he wants to achieve
something, he lives into his role so much that he begins to believe in
it himself. Although he can do much from cheer enthusiasm, in work and
business he is typically practical and resourceful. Won't purchase just
anything, tries to buy only the best. He is easily recognized by the
following trait of behavior. Of all the sociotypes, the ESE is most
prone to go back to the store and request replacement of defective goods
or a refund. Skillfully combines and composes things together. Knows how
to create a cozy environment seemingly out of nowhere. His possessions
may not be the newest, but always of good quality. Tracks health and
well-being of his loved ones. After visiting the doctor wants to make
certain of diagnosis to figure out treatment for himself. Loves it when
he is being helped, when someone is doing something around the house
with their hands. What is important is not the result, but the fact that
someone has decided to help him. Another quality that allows to identify
this sociotype - is incredible hospitality. Tries to impress his guests
with something unusual - to amaze and dazzle them. Gravitates towards
social gatherings that feature food. While at this, he can be rather
intrusive, not restrain himself to reasonable sense of measure, as in
Ivan Krylov's fable "Demyanov's soup". ESE's uneconomical, useless waste
of energy manifests itself in almost everything. He's always in a hurry,
running somewhere, paying visits. Constantly over-loaded with things to
do, tasks, chores, and activities, many of which can be put aside.
Poorly tolerates criticism on this point, becomes offended.

Appearance
----------

The ESE can be determined by certain peculiarities of his appearance,
and with this one should pay attention to the gait and movements.
Details of ESE's face are usually small and proportional. In the face,
one can notice a certain upward aspiration or upward impulse. ESE's
posture is almost always straight. The figure is usually thin and
composed. Fullness of figure is very rare. Among men of this type we
haven't encountered excessive fullness of figure even once. In any case,
the proportion of ESE's figure are stretched up. ESE's gait is also very
characteristic and allows to make guesses concerning belonging to this
sociotype. ESE's gait is always fast and very fussy. Such mobility is
especially characteristic of men of this type. An impression is created
of twitching, restlessness. With a :doc:`strong sensory component <ESE_subtypes>` this trait is much less pronounced. The ESE
is also characterized by abrupt changes of facial expression. This is
particularly evident in :doc:`ethical subtype <ESE_subtypes>`. After making
some statements of logical nature, the ESE creates an impression of a
person intensively pondering something. Pays sufficient attention to his
clothes. By his selection of accessories it is clear that he wants to
dress tastefully and harmoniously. Colors are usually picked in tone
with each other. There are no outlying, striking details about his
appearance. For women of this type liking of jewelry of characteristic,
and not necessarily expensive items. Their decorations are always in
harmony with their external appearance. In general, ESE's style of
dressing gravitates towards being decorative, adorning of him or her. In
picking clothing, the ESE always orients at his or her own taste. Puts
on not what is fashionable, but that which compliments him. Tracks that
the way he dresses complies with the functional goal of clothing:
evening dress - for theater, sport style - for recreation. Notable
disparities in clothing indicate that the person belongs to another
sociotype.


As a subordinate
----------------

| **Strengths**
| Active, optimistic, and well-wishing person. Attentive to others,
  caring, tries to help anyone who requests it. Very perceptive of the
  emotional state of other people. Easily establishes contacts with
  people, both of personal and business nature. An opponent of empty
  waste of time. Frequently busy himself with urgent matters. Receptive
  towards promising ideas and alternative propositions that can applied
  in practice. Often a pleasant and charming conversation partner.
  Usually has a good sense of taste. Knows how to do much with his own
  hands. In the life achieves much on his own without relying on help of
  others. Likes to do things quickly, but without observers. Persistent
  and resolute in his actions, especially in emergency situations, when
  he is faced with aggression or acute lack of time. Listens to the
  advice of others, but does things his own way. Often he is successful
  in practical activities, but likes it when his efforts and his
  ingenuity are appreciated by others. Strives for stability, high
  material standard of living, and respect of his colleagues at work.

| **Problem areas**
| ESE accumulates negative emotions, which he can hold in for a while.
  However, when these emotions build up, he can lose his temper and
  flare up, lose his temper, become upset, even fall sick. Cannot act
  without having some emotional rapport with his conversation partner,
  therefore finds it difficult to interact with people who don't in any
  way show their attitude towards what is happening. Not very
  economical. Doesn't always appropriately assess the value and
  usefulness of what he is doing. Vacillates for a long time before
  making an important decision or addressing a complex issue. Poorly
  feels how much time he has in reserve. With difficulty discerns
  important parts from insignificant and minor ones; therefore, has a
  tendency to overload himself with unnecessary tasks and activities.
  Overestimates his practical and business acumen. Doesn't know how to
  wait  wants to do as much as possible ASAP.

From ESE one cannot demand and expect:

-  Unemotional, always reasonable and objective attitude towards work
   and people;
-  Flexibility in behavior and rapid adaptation to the present
   situation;
-  Harsh, uncompromising stances in his dealings with people;
-  Good strategic and technical acumen;
-  Gratuitous altruism;
-  Punctuality in meeting deadlines.

Recommended occupations: improving the infrastructure of society;
advertising, sociological work, medicine, healthcare, design and
decoration, the service sector, trade, management and organization in
social and scientific fields (organization of fairs, workshops,
conferences, recreation, celebrations).


As a supervisor
---------------

Representatives of this sociotype are characterized by receptiveness of
any ideas and initiatives. The ESE is energetic, adventurous, can
demonstrate courage and audacity in risky situations. His nature is
lively, ebullient - the soul of society; a fantasist, and sometimes - a
braggart. The ESE has good command of emotions, which he uses as
instruments for overcoming obstacles and to show his ingenuity. Dislikes
postponing tasks and chores until later, especially when he sees
immediate reward in them.

| Supervisor-companion
| Any companion is feels himself well in the atmosphere of a united,
  cohesive team that is moving towards one goal. Manager of the type
  "Enthusiast" aims to create at his workplace an atmosphere of
  cooperation and friendliness. He is inclined to identify himself with
  the organization, acutely feels its failures and rejoices for its
  successes.

If the "Enthusiast" is psychologically weak, he will try to find in
social structure in a place that would guarantee him safe existence.
Those who are stronger, more confident in themselves, and assured of the
strength of their position, show a marked tendency to dominate, while
trying to maintain positive relations for as long as possible. Such
leaders and managers are capable of making decisions quickly, and,
"rolling up their sleeves", get to work without much delay. They
encourage their subordinates to do the same. A representative of this
sociotype can take up the most routine boring work if he sees it as
necessary. May exhibit excessive fussiness fearing that he won't finish
something.

Due to their vigor and energetic drive, they can compete at very high
levels. However, in conditions of harsh and rigid competition, they
usually do not last. They don't see the potential of situations well and
become "buried" in minor things and insignificant tasks. Thus, this
sociotype is most suitable for leadership in narrow sectors of
production.

The "Enthusiast", despite his companionship-oriented nature, prefers
that his instructions and requests get carried out without further
discussion and critical remarks. Otherwise, conflict becomes a
possibility. He is sufficiently cautious and prudent in relations to his
superiors, although in some cases he can go for conflict and worsening
of relations. Respects people who are independent, who can defend their
opinions, who show character regardless of their position or rank.

Main characteristics:

-  Can adequately express himself as a frontal leader. Capable of
   getting other people interested and involved.
-  His method of establishing business contacts depends to a large
   extent on emotional and value assessments.
-  Form of business activity is characterized by persistent achievement
   of goals by means of successfully bypassing obstacles and
   complications in relations.
-  Builds his system of interaction with subordinates taking emotional
   interactions into account.
-  Inclined to cooperate on basis of mutual benefit. In behavior may
   manifest elements of competing style of behavior.
-  Achieves major results by his energy, drive, ability to motivate, and
   skillful manipulation of emotional relationships.
-  Can manipulate ethical principles, orient and adapt to different
   "rules of the game".
-  Motives and purpose: good intentions and self-benefiting motives. The
   goal - is attainment of profit (preferably within the framework of
   the law).
-  Attitude towards the law: prefers to follow the letter of the law.
-  Strategy: full freedom of management and control within the framework
   of the law.


Working conditions
------------------

The stimulus that drives the "Enthusiast" is achievement of high
emotional status in a group. He wants to be good for all in order to
have an opportunity to exert emotional impact. For this reason, he
strives to become liked by his conversation partners, to help them in
some way. Therefore, in interaction with the ESE you, first of all, will
need to demonstrate a good attitude towards him, show that you certainly
appreciate him and respect his opinions. Let him speak until he
finishes, as the ESE is a :doc:`linear-assertive type <EJ>`,
and once he is in an excited emotional state you are unlikely to
persuade him immediately (he needs some time to "cool off", to start to
think soberly, to change his opinions or views). You can decrease the
effect of his emotional pressuring by keeping yourself in a balanced,
calm state and by requesting specifying details by asking leading
questions. The ESE can do any, even uninteresting, work with good
quality, if you can explain to him its usefulness and future potential
of development of business. Since the ESE is a concretely thinking type,
good pay and comfortable working conditions are not of small importance
to him. Although he may assist you and work for some time simply because
you're a "good person".


Recommendations for self-improvement
------------------------------------

In everyday life, you are an open, sociable, well-wishing person. For
these qualities you are loved by people around you. You are well versed
in the moods of other people, sympathize with the misfortunes of others,
know how to feel their emotions. You won't leave a person in need or in
trouble, try to assist those who have been wronged.

You know how to bring pleasure to people. You are hospitable, generous,
and caring. You know how to fill your free time in an interesting and
active manner: go to movies, theaters, concerts, frequently visit
friends, go to parties. Enjoy pleasant trips and travel. You don't mind
spending time in the fun, loud, boisterous gathering of people, like
holidays and dinners. You enjoy giving gifts, bringing joy to people.

Your main problem - is the inability to dispose of your time in everyday
affairs. You are often too hasty, restless, fidgety. Don't have enough
time for anything. You get buried in endless tasks, chores, activities
and concerns, often forgetting about the main, most important things.

Try to appropriately plan your day. Reject any small, minor questions
and issues, set them aside for later. Try to isolate the main core
within a network of events, and to prognose its further development.
Don't start doing everything at once, otherwise you won't be able to do
it all in time. Remember - no one is safeguarded from surprises and
unexpected happenings.

You can be too demanding and uncompromising in relation to family and
friends, which serves as the cause of many disappointments in people.
Once you feel deceived or disappointed by a person, you become
suspicious and distrustful of everyone else. In a fit of emotion you can
exaggerate the faults of others, present people in black color.

Learn to balance you demands and wishes with the real life. Be tolerant
of people, develop a more sympathetic attitude towards their
shortcomings. Remember that there are no ideal people. With excessive
emotional pressuring you can destroy harmony of relationships.

Your other problem - is excessive expenditure of strength and material
resources. Inability to control daily expenses doesn't allow you to
create the necessary material reserves and savings. Save your strengths,
don't over-exert yourself. Don't take up activities and projects that do
not guarantee reliable returns.

Forego countless meetings with relatives and friends, better take up
household matters, to later carve out some time for leisure and
relaxation. Try to keep order and organization in the house. Get rid of
useless things, do not accumulate them. The less small, useless items
you have, the easier it will be for you to find the necessary thing at
the right time. Temper your hospitality. Don't be too intrusive with
treats. Try to observe a sense of measure in all.
