ESI subtypes
=================

Ethical subtype Fi-ISFj (Fi-ESI)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The ethical subtype usually makes an impression of a modest, gentle,
soft person, but in his soul he is very principled, demanding, and
distrustful. It is difficult to make him change his mind. Can be very
stubborn and intractable. Sensitive, prudish, dislikes imposing his
company. Internally highly critical and applies his high ethical
standards to other people, though may not openly voice this. If his
principles are touched, he can suddenly show his character, becoming
sharp and uncompromising. Hardworking and practical. At work he is
responsible and painstaking. Shows good manners, tries to be gracious
and refined. Dresses with taste, though somewhat monotonously. His gaze
is soft, at times frightened, and testing. In interactions with others,
this is a soulful, attentive, caring and considerate person.

**Character**

Restrained, tactful, and polite in interaction. Discerning of
relationships. Principled in matters of morality and responsibility.
Distinguished by his sharp and categorical conclusions. He is constantly
analyzing actions of other people and condemning any violations of moral
and ethical norms. However, he tries to be more tolerant towards others
and doesn't immediately express his opinions if they are negative. Very
observant: readily notices personal flaws and capabilities of other
people. Remembers the mistakes of others for a long time, and if
opportunity presents itself can resort to his "personal files". May
idealize those he is sympathetic towards from a distance. Demonstrates
his attitude not only by words but also by actions.

This is a person of duty. Does not spare his time and effort for upkeep
of order and stability at work. Does his work meticulously and
thoroughly, overcoming any obstacles that arise on the way. Does not put
off and delay everyday tasks and chores until later. Makes himself to do
work that is uninteresting but necessary. Helps out others with work
that they cannot cope with by the deadlines. Very conscientious, aware
of his obligations, and responsible person, but prefers to share
responsibility with others. Inclined to sit at work late, trying to
finish up everything. Accurately maintains records.

Careful, guarded and distrustful, afraid of making mistakes and letting
down others. Painfully endures injustice and critical remarks regarding
his abilities. Needs praise and compliments, though usually he does not
show this. Tries to exercise foresight in everything, so that any
unexpected events don't catch him by surprise. Prefers to plan for
future activities. Prepares for everything in advance, is punctual and
usually does not run late.

Does not give any promises if he is unsure that he can fulfill them. Shy
and indecisive, dislikes imposing anything on strangers. Appreciates
comfort, both at his workplace and in relationships. Expresses his
attitude not so much by words, as by the tone of his voice and look.

Stable and in his habits, interests and affections. Yielding in
relations, may put aside his own affairs to solve problems of his
partner. Very impressionable and vulnerable, but shares his sufferings
only with his close ones. Values friendship and does not forgive
betrayal. Considerate and courteous. Modest and undemonstrative, tries
not to stand out. Dresses simply, but with good taste.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Delicate and sensitive in nature. A good judge of character and a
reliable friend. Capable of coming to a compromise. With his softness
and ease of interaction he sometimes resembles an SEI. This subtype is
often a better implementer than an organizer. It's important to him how
others regard him, their opinions of him. Attentive, caring, and
sensitive. Good with small children. Can realize himself in applied arts
and cultural work. Outward appearance is modest. He rarely follows
fashion and prefers a freer style.



Sensory subtype Se-ISFj (Se-ESI)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The sensory subtype is quite strict, critical, and ironic. Categorical
in conclusions and uncompromising in decisions. Internally sensitive and
emotional, but tries to appear as strong, cold, self-assured person.
Serious, guarded, and private. Conservative in his tastes and habits.
Diligent in work, though sometimes he lacks in attention and
perseverance to complete his assignments. At times seems unapproachable,
arrogant, and prickly. His gaze is piercing. His face sometimes assumes
a guarded expression. Well-wishing and attentive, but keeps at a
distance from others. Quite undemonstrative. Dislikes it when his
appearance is inspected; afraid of external evaluations. Takes care of
his looks, dresses elegantly, with taste and a bit of strictness. If he
is confident in his appearance, may allow himself to wear additional
accessories. His gait is often hammering.

**Character**

Stubborn, firm, and uncompromising in matters that are of importance to
him. Strong-willed and enduring. Industrious and venturesome. Energetic
and quick in handling practical matters. Can do several things at once,
showing extraordinary work ethic and efficiency. From time to time,
needs an emotional discharge. Difficult life situations invigorate him
and stimulate him to search for quick solutions and exits out of current
circumstances. With difficulty takes the initiative in making new
acquaintances and establishing new contacts, but usually takes the first
steps in breaking off relations that have run their course. Observant
and clever, at the right time can hit the weakest spot of his opponent.
To good and poor treatment answers with the same. Has a tendency to
divide people into "his own" and "others".

Seems somewhat inaccessible, vigilant, and alert. Dislikes it when
someone puts his qualities to an evaluation because internally he is not
fully confident in himself. Intolerant of those who are lazy, slovenly,
and disingenuous. Does not forgive rudeness and tactlessness, which may
even serve as a reason to break up relations for him. In a company of
unfamiliar or unpleasant people, he feels constrained and may choose to
leave quietly. Does not like unexpected visitors, quickly becomes tired
of them. At times he is overly distrustful and suspicious of others.

In conversation with people tries to determine their abilities and
possibilities for future practical application in some area. Tries to
evaluate people objectively, regardless of his sympathies for them.
Often possesses good administrative skills. In his decisions seeks to
rely on factual information.

In a circle of close people, he is usually talkative, makes jokes,
sometimes asks tricky questions, inclined to play pranks and set up
ruses; attempts to entertain others. Subordinates his emotions to the
situation: he is cheerful among those who are cheerful and serious among
those who are serious. Defends and upholds ethical standards. Selflessly
protects his own interests and interest of people who are close to him.
Able to make others subjugate to his will. In difficult situations,
readily lends his help to others and offers his services. Tries not to
show his anger and spite openly, but not everyone can withstand his
penetrating, prickly gaze.

Places high demands on himself. Quickly adapts to new circumstances if
he finds them favorable. Poorly tolerates ambivalence and hesitation.
Finds it difficult to wait for resolution of important for him
questions. Often fluctuates in selection of a goal, but at a critical
moment he can make the right decision. Poorly feels the progression of
time; due to this, grows nervous getting ready for anything, feels
anxious that he won't make it on time. Feels worried concerning upcoming
changes, for example, when he has to take a trip. Cherishes stability,
supports conventions of his own circle. Somewhat suspicious and
skeptical.

A good economist, able to efficiently handle his finances, dislikes
being in debt. Easily takes the initiative in concrete and practical
activities, can even be assertive and imposing. Intolerant of
irresponsibility and disorganization. Often possesses a developed
aesthetic taste and dresses originally. Clean and neat, and demands the
same from others. Finds it difficult to discern individual capabilities
and hidden motives of others; due to this can have problems with his
work colleagues, family members and children.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is a person of duty, very active and enduring. Characterized by
expansionism within a small circle. Can be aggressive if he's not agreed
with. In conflict situations is never the first to seek reconciliation.
Gravitates to administrative roles. May become managers of medium-sized
groups, keeping discipline and order, and applying sanctions to those
who are at fault. Often is quite forthright and blunt. Shows his
attitude with an incinerating look. Businesslike and purposeful. Can
give a rebuff to those who create illegal structures, as they easily
recognize the seeds of such activities. Prefer prestigious style in
clothing, sometimes even bright but not ostentatious tones.



Additional Links
----------------

-  :doc:`Contact and Inert Subtypes by Meged and Ovcharov <contact_inert_subtypes>`
-  :doc:`Subtyping systems and related articles <subtype>`
-  :doc:`Romantic and Sexual Behavior of Quadras and Subtypes <romantic_quadra>`
