ESI Profile by Gulenko
=============================


    
General description
-------------------

ESI is principled and self-sustained. Externally tends to look balanced
and unemotional. Provides moral evaluations of actions of a person, but
usually voices them only within a familiar circle. Has a good sense for
potential foes and ill-wishers, sharply dividing people into "his own"
and "others". Does not recognize friendship and love if they are
unrequited and the feelings aren't mutual.

Lives by his present day problems rarely thinking too far ahead. Feels
unsure when he takes on unfamiliar to him assignments. The closer the
expected event draws, the more agitated and mobilized the ESI becomes.
Dislikes being in situations of uncertainty, when he cannot definitively
say yes or no.

Proactively and directly defends against attacks on himself and on those
who are close to him. If he has decided to take revenge, he can find and
deal a blow to the weakest spot of his opponent. Does not allow himself
to be caught unawares. Sensitively reacts to being accused of unfairness
and lack of objectivity. Needs to keep some physical distance, due to
this dislikes spending a lot of time in physical proximity with others.
Strangers and unfamiliar people in his house worry and irritate him.

When making a decision ESI internally weights its seriousness and
possible negative implications. Practical in his everyday life, can put
anything to use that he finds in his territory. Keeps order and tidiness
in his space. Changes habits with difficulty. Will not wait if promises
are not backed up by concrete actions.


Detailed description
--------------------

ESI sees how people reveal themselves in communication. He cannot be
deceived by pretense of friendliness. He critically assesses the
behavior of those around him, but openly expresses his opinions only
when he feels offended. Remains insistent on his internal subjective
evaluation of a person; it is very difficult to convince him to
reconsider and change his views. In public, wears a mask of cold and
unemotional person. At first acquaintance sharply divides people into
two categories - "his own" and "others". Others mostly cease to exist
for him, but to his own he becomes deeply attached. He is often sharp
and uncompromising with strangers, but forgives a lot for those who are
in his inner circle. Demonstrates his attitude towards someone by
managing psychological distance, first distancing a person, then
bringing them closer.

ESI does not adapt to his partner but instead he seeks to impose his own
line of conduct. Adeptly discerns how much force he needs to apply to
exert sufficient pressure on a person. Keeps himself together until he
reaches a critical point. If needed, readily defends himself and people
close to him. Knows how to teach his offender a lesson, sequentially
increasing the amount of pressure on him. Does not rest until he feels
that his opponent is confused or fallen in his fighting spirit. Moral
victory for him is more important than a physical one. Does not allow
himself to be treated unceremoniously or for anyone else to impose their
views on him. Won't allow himself to be intimidated or provoked.
Dislikes being coerced into doing something and any unreasonable
applications of force. His resistance is usually proportionate to the
degree of aggression directed at him.

ESI finds it difficult to make sense of conglomeration of vague,
original ideas and insights that are not based on established and
recognized facts. Feels uneasy in situations that are unpredictable and
ambiguous. Observing someone compares his capabilities with his own:
"Can I do the same as him?" Either idealizes a person too much, or, on
the contrary, completely denies his capabilities. Does not trust those
who are boastful, who advertise their talents and abilities. Rarely
gives out compliments and praises to others but with pleasure accepts
compliments in his address. Will not indulge a talented but
self-centered and self-satisfied individual. Does not recognize
abilities that are not supplemented by labor. Finds it difficult to
claim attention himself and promote himself for a job. Waits to be
noticed and appreciated for his merits.

Seeks to analyze the situation from different angles and arrive at an
univocal conclusion. Dependent on norms, already established rules, and
tested methods of action. Evaluates everything from the point of view of
common sense and rational self-interest. Forces himself to do what is
required of him by his environment and asks for the same from others.
Needs to keep at some physical distance. Keeps aside from anyone who
irritates him. Avoids large crowds of people.

ESI can truly relax and calm down only after strenuous work that has
brought him some concrete results. Quickly completes labor-intensive
jobs so that he wouldn't have to return to them again. Likes people who
draw him into pragmatic activities. Practical in everyday affairs. Will
find a use for anything that he finds in his space. Likes things are are
both functional and aesthetically beautiful. Appreciates all that is
beneficial and requires minimal effort to achieve or maintain. Knows how
to create comfortable conditions for work and leisure time. Changes jobs
if new place offers more benefits, but with difficulty abandons his
habitual way or life to adapt to new situation. The discomfort that he
experiences during such transitions and restructurings is very stressful
and even frightening for him.

ESI becomes activated in situations where there is a shortage of time.
He is oriented at quick decisions and solutions, otherwise he feels
irritated. Being nudged over minor details evokes internal protest in
him, but he rapidly mobilizes for significant goals and projects. It is
better to not give him much time to prepare; the more time he spends
getting ready, the more anxious and worried he grows, and the poorer the
result will be. Internally ESI is apprehensive. He thinks about dangers
and negative outcomes that threaten him and his relatives. Looks for
philosophical and mystical ways of reasoning to attain a sense of
protection from the vagaries of fate. Will not allow himself to be taken
by surprise, always ready for contingencies. He has a good memory for
the mistakes, failures, and shocks of the past, from which he draws
lessons for the future.

ESI is perceptive of the emotional state of a person. If a person is in
a poor mood, he asks about the reasons that caused it, however, he is
often incapable of improving another's mood and alleviating their
worries. Instead he adapts himself to the moods of others. In a serious
situation he is emphatically formal. Among friends he is casually
cheerful, even allowing himself some cynical witticisms. Likes people
who are cheerful and energetic, who know how to loosen and relax others,
how to reduce tensions and improve the mood, who have confidence in the
future. ESI needs a distraction from burdensome negative thoughts and
periodic emotional releases. He tries to avoid the drama of life and
explosions of negative emotions. He is too aware of the heavy impact
these have on one's psyche and well-being. At times he deliberately
accelerates conflicts and dramatize situations to speed up their
resolution and settlement.

ESI cannot idle about without some concrete task. Idleness and
joblessness oppress him. He is constantly looking for something that he
can do. Work serves as medicine for many of his ailments. Dislikes
appearing before others as messy and unattractive, or in poor physical
condition. If he falls ill, he immediately seeks treatment. Feels
sympathy for those who are weakened, sick, unsettled, dependent,
vulnerable. Involuntarily desires to aid them with some specific
actions, help them overcome their crisis or get over their harmful
habits. Appreciates clean, healthy lifestyle. Will not tolerate a person
who is physically repulsive to him or is unhealthy in his instincts.


Manner of communication
-----------------------

In any matter the ESI is oriented critically and first of all points to
substantial shortcomings. He examines a situation from all sides, tries
to be logical and objective, to figure things out without emotions.
Notices violations of ethical standards. Gives personal evaluations of
people's actions when he's conversing in a circle of his close friends.
In his assessments he is directed by the concept of duty. Sometimes
gives advice from point of view of negative ethics, which can be
summarized as an open expression of negative emotions: "Go, tell him
everything that you think about him!" If the :doc:`ethical component is accentuated <ESI_subtypes>` in this type, then in communication there
may be certain unnatural playfulness, uninhibitedness, forced stiff
laughter. The ESI is oriented at ambiguous jokes and retorts, and a
somewhat coarse courting style (women). To remarks and replicas made in
his own address the ESI will always find something to reply - he/she
doesn't go searching in his pockets for an answer. Enters into fights
and quarrels in public transport or when standing in waiting lines,
however, not out of his own initiative but to defend himself against
external insults and offenses. Sometimes inclined to check people's
sense of humor by a prank - tells others something that would require an
immediate emotional reaction with a serious expression on his face. In
communication the ESI needs not so much psychological as physical
distance. Dislikes spending a lot of time alone with one person. Strange
and unfamiliar people in his house irritate him.


Features of behavior
--------------------

The most characteristic feature of the behavior of ESI, which you can
notice observing him - is the ability to actively protect himself and
loved people. If the ESI took a person under patronage and protection,
he or she will provide assistance to that person for a long time: go and
negotiate for them, defend their interests. When the ESI is being really
troubled, he or she goes on an active counter attack, starts up a
scandal. In cases when he has decided to take revenge, he can find the
weak spots of his opponent. At times the ESI experiences feelings of
remorse and pangs of conscience. Lives under the pressure of a sense of
duty. Due to this, may be inclined to alleviate stress with alcohol.
Likes to sometimes have fun in a company of friends, taking off all
inhibitions. With difficulty tolerates situations of uncertainty, when
he cannot say yes or no. In such situations starts running around and
grabbing everything at once, or fixates on something and painfully mulls
over it for a long time. Does not like to wait. The closer the
anticipated major event, the faster ESI's anxiety and stress grow.
Cleans home rarely, but with much thoroughness (especially women). Can
for example wash the floor several times in the same day. Won't go to
sleep until he washes all the dishes and cleans the table. The ESI
doesn't quite know how to relax and spend leisure time not doing
anything. Measures work not only by final outcome, but also by the
effort invested.

Appearance
----------

The ESI can be recognized by a characteristic piercing gaze and facial
expression that shows notes of alertness and readiness to show
resistance. When the ESI submerges into his own thoughts, he can stare
directly at an object or a person. With this, his face reflects
confusion due to uncertainty of the situation in which he has found
himself. When the ESI looks at a person and his look is returned, he
often diverts, casts aside his gaze. Can hold in one position for a long
time. ESI's lips are usually not narrow but somewhat plump, and tightly
compressed. His face is usually smoothly organized, with no sharp
protruding cheekbones. If the :doc:`ethical component is accentuated <ESI_subtypes>` in the ESI, the facial expression usually
expresses discontent, critical attitude, at times even anger. The
figures of ESI are varied, from thin, elongated, with long legs, even
ballerina-like, to dense, stately, with broad shoulders. Strict elegance
is characteristic of the way the ESI dresses, with a tone of formality
being almost always present, both when the ESI is outside and when he's
receiving guests at home. ESI's clothes are never untidy: he is always
organized, pulled-up, has a straight bearing, not relaxed. There is a
tendency towards folklore for this sociotype.


As a subordinate
----------------

| **Strengths**
| Well versed in relations between people. Conscientious, responsible,
  punctual. Prepares in advance for his work and does it fully and
  consistently. Spares no time and energy to create order. Forces
  himself to do work that is interesting but required. Knows how to
  rationally handle his resources without going into debt. Principled,
  has a developed sense of dignity and self-control. If necessary can
  firmly and vigorously defends himself and his family. Stable in his
  habits and affections. Intolerant of untidiness and carelessness.
  Demands that others work by proven methods. Readily comes to aid
  others in difficult moments, helps by providing his service. Usually
  doesn't turn up late at the events. Attempts to evenly distribute his
  affairs along the time axis, but frequently ends up being overloaded
  with things to do. Hardworking in his household.

| **Problem areas**
| Painfully endures injustice and unethical behavior. Vulnerable and
  impressionable. To good and evil responds with the same. Easily sees
  personal shortcomings of others. Distinguished by sharpness of
  judgement in his evaluations of people. Expresses his attitude towards
  someone not as much by words as by tone of voice and look. Inclined to
  divide people into "his own" and "others". Does not forgive betrayal.
  Suspicious, poorly tolerates unpredictability and ambiguity, dislikes
  frequent changes. Finds it difficult to objectively assess abilities
  of people, thus to all extends his high ethical standards. Does not
  like it when someone evaluates his own qualities, since internally he
  is not always certain in himself; in his attempts to suppress him can
  be overly contentious.

From ESI one cannot demand and expect:

-  An always a positive attitude towards life;
-  Indifferent attitude towards activities and actions he/she considers
   unethical;
-  Ability to quickly change his valuations and beliefs;
-  Receptiveness to extraordinary proposals.

Recommended occupations: The social sphere, areas that require
interaction with people. Tedious work with physical component that
requires focus and concentration, such as medicine and health
(especially applied fields: dentistry, massage, working nurse,
acupuncture, physical therapy, X-ray, biochemical diagnostics). Service
and commodities sector: accounting, bookkeeping, seller and cashier.


As a supervisor
---------------

This is a serious and composed person, who is inwardly always wary of
possible manifestations of negative attitudes in others. His ethical
standards for him are the procrustean bed from which he evaluates and
judges the actions of people around him. He is critical of those who
violate the his norms of behavior. Often won't outwardly show his
negative attitude towards someone until a situation arises when the
person demonstrates hostility. In such cases, ESI applies pressure on
his offender and resists if he is counter-challenged, steadfastly
defending his attitudes and stances. This ability to "protect" his
internal space from the invasion of external forces is what defines the
style of management of "The Guardian".

| Supervisor-moralizer
| Moralizing behavior of such supervisor is the result of a critical
  attitude towards the actions of people who, in his view, should meet
  his firmly upheld standards. Usually a representative of this type is
  able to give a fair assessment of someone's behavior, gain his
  confidence, understand his problems and provide useful advice for his
  personal concerns. But on one condition: this individual must meet
  ESI's internal ethical criteria.

Supervisor-moralizer is critical not only of others but also of himself.
He devotes considerable amount of attention to analysis of his
abilities, often underestimating them in the course. Thus he may avoid
taking on full responsibility and prefer to share it with someone else.
He is better suited for resolving problems of tactical nature. Fears
risky activities that may lead to crises situations. To this end, tries
to prevent abrupt changes in circumstances. If such a situation is
inevitable can for a long hesitate trying to chose between alternative
actions.

The supervisor of this type has the makings of a hierarchical leader
capable of establishing a well-defined set of values ??and the
corresponding structure of relations. In this system, he seeks to ensure
the stability of personal ties. Easily determines who is the informal
leader on a team, knows how to use this person to his aid. Stimulates
activity by appealing to sense of duty, respect, discipline, to not
undermine the authority of the group.

His form of business activity varies. ESI tries to predict the results
of his activities, take precautionary measures to avoid unfortunate and
disadvantageous situations. Timeliness of action is an important factor
that influences his levels of confidence and stress. If an unexpected
outcome becomes fait accompli, ESI can take drastic actions that require
the mobilization of volitional activity and composure. Shows
perseverance and steadfastness in those matters in which he is certain.
Not inclined to surrender or compromise on his positions -
uncompromisingly defends his interests and the interests of his group.

Main characteristics:

-  Has the makings of a hierarchical leader.
-  Establishing business contacts he is focused on the personal factors.
   Demonstration of objectivity is on formal level.
-  Able to manifest divergent forms of business activity - from
   undertaking precautionary measures to strong-willed, uncompromising
   action.
-  The system of interaction with subordinates and colleagues based on
   sharing common system of values.
-  Characterized by uncompromising style of behavior.
-  Achieves good results through team building, supporting order and
   consistency.
-  Management is conducted in accordance with his understanding of
   ethical and professional norms.
-  Motives and purpose: strives to combine well wishing motives with his
   own interests. Their implementation values higher than prestige.
   Uncompromising in protection of his interests and the interests of
   his team.


Working conditions
------------------

The main impetus that drives the "Guardian" is attainment of high level
of prosperity for himself and his loved ones. He is usually hard-working
and dexterous, and can work as much as is needed to provide a decent
income for his family. He can be assigned any work that requires swift
execution if you can fully rewards its value. Else, not getting paid by
his merits, the "Guardian" will start to reject your offers under
different pretexts: he would rather not undertake any work at all rather
than do it half-heartedly. The "Guardian" has periods when he becomes
overly negative and moralizing, feels dissatisfied with his whole life,
and especially with people who surround him. In such situations,
dissuading him in this is useless. Best of all he can be helped by
intense, energetic activity that will distract him. Despite the fact
that the "Guardian" performer well even when doing routine work, he
cannot always envision the methodology of what needs to be done. The
necessity of action at any given time may evoke in him some serious
doubts. If you confidently and optimistically explain to him the "flow
chart" of the steps, and then proceed to rush him in the process ("If
you don't do this now, later it won't work because..."), this will help
him get into gear and overcome his internal hesitance. You can paint a
picture of success and good results that await him in the near future if
he completes the job as soon as possible.


Recommendations for self-improvement
------------------------------------

Your main strength is the ability to give a solid ethical judgement of
actions of any individual. You are intolerant of lack of decency,
dishonesty, and injustice in people's attitudes. You appreciate sense of
responsibility and moral standards. You are demanding of yourself and
others in matters of conscience and ethics. You are able to gain
confidence of a person by delving into his problems and by finding
interesting subjects for conversation. You try to understand your
conversation partner, listen to him or her, help with advice. You are
rarely mistaken in assessing how others relate to yourself, in what
regard they hold you.

You are a composed, strong-willed, and determined person. If necessary,
you can stand up for yourself and those who are close to you. You are
hard-working and don't spare your time and energy completing your
assignments, tasks, and chores for maintaining your household.

You set short range goals towards which you move assertively,
persistently and directly. You are straightforward and uncompromising in
defending your stances and criticisms of faults and flaws. It is for
your integrity, firmness, and seriousness that other people come to
respect and value you.

In life you may try to avoid vague and confusing situations when you're
not sure what to do. In such situations, it can be difficult for you to
show restraint and patience. You don't like to wait long for resolving
issues that is of significance to you. It is very important to you to
ensure a beneficial outcome in the shortest time possible.

Try to take into account interests of other people so that they in turn
would be inclined to help you with realization of your wishes. Don't
demand of others to display qualities that do not come naturally to
them. Don't focus too much on personal flaws and lack of certain
qualities in others. Try to be more tolerant of shortcomings of those
around you.

You also experience difficulty in grasping the imperceptible causes of
phenomena. To avoid jumping to wrong conclusions and decisions, try to
take into consideration advice of experienced, wise and insightful
people.

Strive to liberate your mind, encourage creativity and imagination in
yourself. Read diverse literature about various kinds of subjects. This
will help you to widen your outlook and develop a more comprehensive and
tolerant worldview.

Don't become too confined by your internal frameworks. Communicate with
different kinds of people. This will give you more confidence in your
abilities.

Another problem you face is your inability to create a relaxed and
unconstrained atmosphere in interaction. The presence of many people
tires you out. At work you may prefer to work independently and
separately from others. Don't restrict your communication only to those
whom you consider useful for yourself to not leave an impression of a
calculating and pragmatic person. Be more natural at expressing your
emotions, try to overcome your inner restrictions. Avoid the extremes of
either being too official and reserved in communication or too familiar.
Try not to look at your conversation partner directly as this is
unsettling to some.

Try to smile more often. Don't forget to show positive attitudes. Voice
compliments when they are deserved. Remember that by a smile and a kind
word you can lift tensions, reduce strain in communication, set the
desired interpersonal distance, and thus inspire others to mutual
sympathies and friendly relations.
