IEE subtypes
=========================

Intuitive subtype Ne-ENFp (Ne-IEE)
----------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The intuitive subtype makes an impression of a person somewhat torn away
from reality, internally focused, and at the same time scattered.
Inclined to unexpected contrasts in behavior: shyness and apathy are
suddenly replaced by emotional elation, decisiveness, and activity, the
melancholic look on his face changes to inspired and joyful. Thoughtful
and impulsive, optimistic and suppressed, timid and energetic, he
imparts very varied impressions on others. Internally inconsistent,
vulnerable, easily offended, but hides his problems under a mask of
being carefree. Tries to be friendly with everyone, strives to
understand all people, to favor everyone with his smile. Attentive, soft
and tactful, predisposing towards trust. Willingly delves into the
problems of others, tries to find a way out of difficult position and to
give useful advice. Defends his views emotionally. Can exert
psychological pressure on his opposition. His movements are impulsive,
not well coordinated, and somewhat angular. Gait is fast and a bit
awkward. Chin is often pointed. Gaze is attentive, interrogative or
surprised, penetrating and perceptive.

**Character**

Very perceptive. Has a good sense for hidden motivations of people.
Especially acutely sees people's flaws, but tries not to show it to not
offend anyone. Before him it is pointless to pretend. He hates falsity
and hypocrisy. Forgiving towards various human weaknesses. Friendly and
responsive, sympathizes with people, likes giving them advice in
difficult life situations. Always see several varied solutions to the
problem, and suggest a resolution or exit even in the most hopeless
cases. He has the gift of persuasion, uplifts despairing people and
inspires them to overcome the difficulties.

Discerning of people's abilities. Gravitates towards talented and
extraordinary personalities. Likes new experiences and impressions.
Interested in all that is unusual and mysterious. Curious, reads much
and reflects. This is a creative personality. Analyzes everything -
tries to understand the essence of different phenomena. Feels bored if
he doesn't find a use for his abilities: from routine his vitality
wanes. Tends to periodically change jobs or his hobbies, to test himself
in a new pursuits, until he finds an occupation that he sincerely
enjoys. He is constantly experimenting, looking for new directions and
approaches in his work. He is very demanding towards himself and towards
others in creative sense. Always can find flaws and faults and is
therefore never completely happy with what has been done. Becoming
inspired by any idea becomes its active supporter. Persistently promotes
and develops it, not sparing his time and efforts.

Has a holistic, global approach to solving problems. Difficulties do not
frighten him, but in the reverse they attract him. When he starts on one
thing, he sees everything that is somehow related to it. Experiences
difficulties in connection this, when there is a need to select the main
important aspects and push aside all those secondary. Tries to finish
the whole load of assignments and chores at once, as a result of which
he overworks himself and loses faith in their own strengths. In such
cases, needs a long rest and to focus his attention on something else.
After this, gets back to work with renewed enthusiasm and completes his
assignments. Cannot stand when he is subjected to a strict work schedule
or when someone tightly manages his activities. Prefers to have
independence that would allow him to live freely, by his own schedule,
and to retain his individuality.

Demonstrates follow-through with his projects and interests others with
them. His faith in success, even in the most hopeless cases, gets passed
on to those around him, while his enthusiasm is able to shake the
confidence of even the most hardened skeptics. Passionately defends his
beliefs. If he is confident in his correctness, exerts strong emotional
pressure on others, disregarding any authorities. Quickly notices weak
spots of his opponent and can easily put him into a dead end. But grows
tired from discussions quickly. Prefers to communicate with like-minded
people, and thus creates a social circle around himself of people who
have similar views and are sympathetic towards each other.

Able to see ahead, has a good sense for future development and prospect
of affairs and relations. Perceives danger ahead of time, and tries to
take measures to eliminate it in advance. Surprises people around him by
his gift of prescience, as his predictions often come true. Having many
options and choices of solutions, experiences difficulty with taking
initiative. Unsure of himself, and especially in his own volitional
qualities. Suffers due to his scatteredness and disorganization, and
inertia of his character. Doesn't know how to protect his material and
financial interests. However, in extreme situations he is decisive,
determined, cool-headed and discerning, instantly orients, showing
courage and resourcefulness.

Reacts sensitively to rudeness, cruelty, injustice. Can lose his temper
and flare up. Doesn't always control himself in his words and actions.
Calming down, tries to rectify the situation, especially if he feels
himself in the wrong. Otherwise doesn't compromise. Very impressionable
and vulnerable. For a long time cannot get out of a stressed state. Even
after many years, remembers what he had lived through and experienced
down to the minutest details. Being disappointed in a person, forever
crosses him out of his life. Not vindictive in little things. Able to
forgive a lot to those whom he loves and respects.

Tries to be responsible and keep his obligations, to not let others
down. Might not keep his word only due to easily getting distracted.
Does not like to make promises if he is not confident that he can
fulfill them. Sometimes does more than what is expected of him. Dislikes
being in debt, having to ask for help, to impose himself or show vested
interests. Strives to keep his appearance, his living space and his
workplace in order, but this comes to him only with great effort.
Impractical and yielding in everyday household matters, modest and
undemanding towards items, but strives to look attractive, sometimes
even extravagant. Doesn't know how to take care of himself, but is in
big need of both personal and physical comfort. Poorly tolerates
overcrowdeding, large crowds of people, as well as absence of aesthetics
in any of its manifestations.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Very sociable, temperamental, mobile person. Initiator of many things,
characterized by a lot of restlessness and changeability. Very creative
person, but at times he is scattered and lacks discipline. Capable of
pouring out his dissatisfaction on his superiors, does not take
relations of subordination into account. Outwardly, frequently has full
rounded forms. In clothing can be demonstrative, bright, even gaudy.



Ethical subtype Fi-ENFp (Fi-IEE)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The ethical subtype is artistic, impatient, a little extravagant.
Unpredictable in his actions and statements. Like to surprise or
entertain people around him, and even insignificant events present as
big sensations. Frequently becomes the soul of the company: he is
self-assured, has a good sense of humor, independent, original, and very
impulsive. Characterized by a kind of sincerity and spontaneity similar
to a small child who doesn't hide his feelings. Can create familiar,
homelike environment for communication even with unfamiliar to him
people. Readily gives compliments, voices his admirations of people
around him. Optimistic and amiable. Charming and coquettish, but too
direct and rash in his statements and actions. This creates an
impression of seeming availability or theatricality. At times assertive
and pushy, periodically becomes focused. Looks directly at someone,
attentively, not blinking. Movements are sharp and decisive. Gait is
rapid and directed, assured, although somewhat angular. Often has a
somewhat round face. Likes to dress originally, with taste, to impress
others and to be liked by them.

**Character**

Single-minded, purposeful, determined, active and mobile. Clever,
inventive, and resourceful in solving any problems. Believes in good
luck no matter what happens. With his energy, optimism, and hard work he
usually achieves his goals. He is able to overcome great obstacles. It
is difficult for him to prepare for something in advance, he prefers
impromptu improvisations. Sometimes he does even the incredible at the
last moment, when seemingly there were no chances. Does not become lost
under any circumstances. Even if he's unsure of himself, demonstrates
courage and determination, with which he can psychologically disarm an
opponent.

Emotional, sociable, and welcoming. Knows how to find an approach to
each person. Seems somewhat affectatious in his behavior. Readily gives
compliments to people with a sincere desire to raise their mood and
spirits, to do something pleasant for them. Tries to encourage everyone,
to instill confidence in success. Charming and diplomatic. Of flaws and
shortcomings speaks in a joking manner, so as not to offend. Talks of
his own difficulties and troubles with humor, due to which some may come
to view him as a carefree, light-minded, unproblematic person. Due to
his desire to maintain good relations with everyone can overload himself
with unnecessary contacts. Not accepting of conventions and prejudices.
Trusting by nature: in a conversation can say too much, considering
secrecy a sign of cowardice or insecurity.

Tries to be the center of attention and to be liked by everyone. Likes
to win over people, but usually doesn't go beyond this. Inclined to
quickly become disappointed in the objects of his sympathy. Very much
dependent on his moods, which sometimes affects his close relationships.
Impulsive and straightforward, sometimes extravagant and unpredictable
in his actions, but always interesting to people around him. Tries to be
aware of the various events, so that given an opportunity he can stun
others with original new, to tell them something extraordinary,
sensational, spectacular. Has well-developed imagination, and in the
course of telling a story adds interesting details, in which he himself
may come to believe. At times confuses reality and imaginative fiction.

Enthusiastically defends his views and opinions. An opponent of
hierarchy and rank subordination. Doesn't become timid before his
superiors, boldly defends his point of view and interests.
Impressionable and easily takes offense. Can be hot tempered,
unrestrained, at times even aggressive. However, easily moves on and
forgives. Not envious, sincerely rejoices at the successes of others.
Seems organic, natural, free and unconstrained in his behavior. Creates
a trusting atmosphere in interaction and knows how to diffuse a tense
situation.

Energetic and enterprising in new ventures, although at times he doesn't
have enough patience and follow-through. Restless, dislikes performing
meticulous detailed work, to take care of documentation. Dislikes strict
rules that hinder his independence. Can run late to events. Often
doesn't complete his assignment in time, as he gets distracted by
extraneous activities and conversations. In interaction, often changes
topics of conversation, jumping from one subject to another. Feels upset
and discouraged if at this he loses sight of something important.

Energetic and enterprising in new business, although he sometimes lacks
patience and consistency. Restless, he does not like hard work,
documentation. He does not like the strict rules that hamper its
independence. It may be late for the event. Often it does not have time
to make the scheduled date, as distracted by extraneous things and talk.
In conversation often changes the topic of conversation, jumping from
one to another. It discouraged if it loses sight of something
significant.

Due to tendency to scatter his attention, prefers to receive information
in a concise, clear, memorable form. He doesn't need lengthy
explanations, understands everything from half a word. In important to
him matters, he is conscientious, tries to be responsible at his job,
works thoroughly and efficiently. Dislikes letting people down and
becomes very upset if he fails to fulfill his agreements. Tries to fight
irresponsibility in himself and atone for his fault in any way. Values
the opinions of people in his circle. Feels offended if there are doubts
of his abilities, his logic and business qualities. Self-critical, still
the criticism of others wounds him deeply.

Inclined to risky adventures, that improve his vitality, travels and
makes trips with much pleasure. He is often not careful enough and
reckless in his actions. Needs care and attention of people around him.
Not indifferent to comfort, but is unable to constantly maintain order
and organization. From everyday and household problems, as well as from
any routine, gets tired easily. Not thrifty and economical, careless,
negatively views any manifestations of greed. Likes beautiful things.
Looks simple and natural, but if he wishes can dress elegantly and
originally. Looks after his figure. A hopeless romantic: inclined to
idealize people and relationships. Dreams of harmony and perfection.
Feels upset by the inability to find them in real life.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Sees in other people hidden desires, inclination, and attachments.
Prefers to work at a short psychological distance, unlike the intuitive
subtype. Likes giving advice, gravitates towards psychoanalysis, in this
case counting on manifestation of positive qualities in people. Can
stand up for others, defend their interests, but finds it more difficult
to stand up for himself. Outwardly is often somewhat thin and elegant.
Prefers free sitting clothes and soft tones.



Additional Links
----------------

-  `Discussion of IEE (ENFp)
   subtypes <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/719-ENFp-IEE-Subtypes>`_
-  :doc:`Contact and Inert Subtypes by Meged and Ovcharov <contact_inert_subtypes>`
-  :doc:`Subtyping systems and related articles <subtype>`
-  :doc:`Romantic and Sexual Behavior of Quadras and Subtypes <romantic_quadra>`
