IEE Profile by Gulenko
===============================



General description
-------------------

Insightful: keenly discerns the motives of other people. Gravitates
towards the capable and the extraordinary personalities. Knows how to
cheer up someone, how to instill hope. Advises on ways out of difficult
life situations.

Altruistic: for people towards whom he is sympathetic can do more than
what was expected of him. Light and kind in communication. With his
sincerity and warmth inspires trust. May become offended if he doesn't
obtain an emotional response. Seeks to manage the feelings of others.

Mobilizes and becomes active in extreme situations. Provides resistance
to and repels unjustified attacks. He is often unable to make himself do
what is objectively needed. Poorly combines what he wishes for with the
concurrent reality of the situation. First demonstrates initiative but
then seeks people who will ensure implementation of his ideas without
his participation.

Becomes easily tired of the routine, thus frequently changes his hobbies
and occupations. Doing meticulous, detailed work is not for him. For
him, it is difficult to follow schedules and timetables. He doesn't take
well to strict discipline, has little respect the formal subordination.

Detailed description
--------------------

The IEE (ENFp) has an excellent intuition for people. He adeptly
assesses motivation of others from disparate phrases, intonation, facial
expressions, and peculiarities of behavior. Easily guesses what another
person is striving for. Learns quickly, for he is able to grasp the main
points of the issue. Has well-developed faculties of fantasy: often
thinks up stories with entertaining plot lines, creates imaginary scenes
and events, easily envisions and conceptualizes. Gravitates towards
talented and unusual personalities. Knows how to encourage and inspire
people, generously gives compliments, enthusiastically describes future
activities and prospects. Offers multiple solutions for addressing the
same problem. Finds it unbearable to occupy himself with repetitive
work; repetition generates boredom which strongly depresses his spirits.

IEE, like no other, is discerning in the logic of human relations,
especially acutely he sees the causes and motivations that create
complications and conflicts in intimate relationships and friendships.
It is easier for him, however, to maintain the present relations that
are running smoothly than to mend old breakups. He sensitively reacts to
any antipathies and animosity. Charming and sociable; will build
relations with anyone, if this person is interesting to him. Perceptive
of which distance he needs to keep with which individual in social
interaction, although he doesn't always hold it. IEE knows what needs to
be done to maintain a favorable psychological atmosphere within a group.
He gives advice on how to interact and communicate with someone to
become invaluable to them.

In extreme situations, IEE mobilizes and acts quite resolutely and
decisively. Provides a rebuff and resistance to any types of
encroachment and invasions. He will respond to any dictatorial and
coercive attempts and retaliate with force. Very independent, but also
won't attempt to compel and drive others. Not afraid to speak out
against a superior force. He can go to an official or a manager of any
rank and demand a resolution or implementation of measures to address
his problems. When he gets involved in arguments, IEE will actively and
sometimes aggressively assert his opinions and views. Suffers from
irritability and edginess. For this reason often has trouble with
building up bodily tension.

IEE is unable to work effectively within a rigid system that imposes too
many restrictions. He dislikes it when his relations with others are
controlled and regulated from the outside. Find it difficult to perform
meticulous work of the type of formal accounting. He often doesn't go
into the details but will instead grasp the general meaning. Due to
this, he doesn't always listen to another person to the very end before
coming to a conclusion and voicing his advice, which results in others
feeling misunderstood. In his reasoning and formulation of objective
conclusions, he often errs on the side of subjective impressions and
subjective ethics and may ignore or dismiss the facts that contradict
his own personal impressions. Though he will put in an effort and take
objective factors into account in cases when he doesn't want to leave a
poor impression of himself.

IEE is able to fully relax only in a thoroughly comfortable environment
where he can feel himself at home and not worry about complications. He
needs substantial doses of pleasant experiences; personal enjoyment
plays a big role in his life. He loves it when he is surrounded by
comfort, domestic coziness, help and care shown in concrete actions. Due
to his preference for this kind of leisure, sometimes he makes an
impression of a superficial, high-spirited and carefree person. It is
possible for him to get sucked into the vortex of pleasant life which
could lead to unpleasant consequences. He doesn't take care much of
himself and can do with very little, however, physical and emotional
discomfort will eventually undermine his health. He seeks the kind of
lifestyle that isn't be too heavily burdened with contention and the
need to fight for one's existence.

His internal state and mood are dependent upon the nature of work that
he has to do. If it's not interesting or seems useless, then his mood
drops. For this reason, IEE is not prone to performing regular upkeep
and maintenance of his living quarters. He has weak sense of pragmatism
and is not economical. If he becomes involved in organizing something,
he does it out of his creative interest, for the soul, for the idea, and
not for profit. The best reward for his labor is admiration, excitement
and conveyance of positive emotions. The interplay of connecting
pleasure with business constitutes a large part of IEE's life - he tries
to turn work or studying into a kind of a game.

IEE concerns with and seeks to manage the time expenditures of those
around him. He does not tolerate people who don't act effectively or
take away precious time. At the same time, often he poorly manages his
own time and is prone to tardiness. When explaining or telling others
about something, he follows his own tangents and associations, cannot
relay information in a brief compact form, because of this doesn't
always fit into the allotted time. For Advisor, it is important to
monitor the ongoing development of the situation. Without inspiration
and hope, without changes for the better, he feels depressed. Easily
believes in optimistic promises, even though he understands that major
changes take a while to implement. He himself is not characterized by
patience. If his attempts to contradict his fate fail, then he gradually
resigns himself to the inevitable.

IEE knows how to take the initiative and inspire people to action. But
when his desire is lost, he tries to find other people who will drive
the project to completion without his direct involvement. Internally, he
is filled with conflicting thoughts and sad emotions. In order to escape
and distract himself, can bury himself in work. In this he often doesn't
feel a sense of measure and can overwork himself. In communication, he
is emotional, independent, and somewhat naive. However, these qualities
help him to achieve success in seemingly hopeless or very difficult
undertakings. In a good mood, he effectively resolves the current
operational difficulties and obstructions. He quickly finds how to
substitute a missing item, or even how to completely do without it.

Manner of communication
-----------------------

It is very easy to identify IEE by his manner of communication. When it
comes to men, this is the style of Don Juan, who easily conquers women's
hearts by his soft, suave manners, his ability to make compliments, and
unobtrusive, flexible courtship. IEE woman, for the same reasons, and
especially when the :doc:`ethical component is emphasized <IEE_subtypes>`,
is often viewed as frivolous and easily accessible, provoking men to
make active attempts. However, she suddenly gives a resolute rebuff, up
to use of physical force if the situation has taken a serious turn.
Independence, immediacy, emotionality are characteristic of IEE's manner
of of communication. He or she knows how to find an approach to
virtually anyone. Very easily comes into contact, a pleasant
conversation partner. Helps people with advice on how to get out of
difficult ethical situations. Instills hope with phrases such as: "It
will all be right," "Everything is still ahead," "There are no hopeless
situations", and so on. To logical types this style of communication may
seem chaotic, superficial. However, it is because the IEE does not
bother with deep study of details that he or she can easily explore new
areas of knowledge, grasping all that is the most interesting in a given
sphere. Because of his desire for a beautiful life, this sociotype is
commonly encountered in large cities, where there are many opportunities
for a pastime and entertainment.


Features of behavior
--------------------

Observing the IEE for a while it is easy to notice the most
characteristic feature of his behavior - the ability to create around
himself a close circle of friends, and be in center of their attention.
Moreover, the IEE forms the needed relationships in this group gently,
unobtrusively, with a sense of tact. The IEE very much values the
opinions of surrounding people. Actively defends himself if someone
questions his abilities, insults or otherwise offends him. The IEE is
characterized by volitional mobilization in emergency situations. When
there is panic and chaos around, the IEE suddenly becomes active,
resolute, can take command into his own hands if there isn't another
strong-willed person around. However under everyday normal
circumstances, he is rather disorganized and slack. Deep, detailed study
of concrete questions is boring to him. Learning all that is most
interesting in one field or topic he switches to another. Often changes
his hobbies and involvements. Poorly prepares documentation: reports,
tables, reference charts. Mindful of his appearance, for example, he
will check how he looks before going on stage. In behavior the IEE is
inclined to adventurism, impromptu actions, thoughtless recklessness.
Only the IEE can, being swept by the influence of his desire, take the
train and ride off into unknown direction with only one purpose - to
unwind. Likes to spend some money on his needs and whims. Men of this
type have a tendency to revel in restaurants in a showy manner. Often
consider their purpose to be a "beautiful life" that is not burdened by
boring everyday concerns. With age, of course, this may pass.

Appearance
----------

This type is perhaps one of the most difficult to identify by appearance
from a distance. It has no pronounced facial features. If the :doc:`ethical component is strengthened <IEE_subtypes>`, the gait and movements are
quick and jerky. His hands freely swing at the same time, as if tied on
a rope. Facial features are mostly proportional, often rounded.
Sometimes, the IEE has large, full, African-style lips. If the
:doc:`intuitive component is enhanced <IEE_subtypes>`, the movements are
calmer, slow, without jerking. The figure is most often elongated, thin,
lanky for men. He puts places his feet on the ground with his toes
pointing outwards so much that it reinforces the impression of
irrationality of his walk. For IEE, as with all members of the fourth
quadra, it is rare to find noses that protrude far beyond the plane of
the face. IEE styles of dressing is more telling, especially for women.
There is always some perceptible carelessness, incompleteness, lack of
strictness. Their dressing style is romantic - relaxed, light, and easy.
In clothing, as in the whole appearance of IEE, there are some notes of
theatricality and carnival-like accents. The ethical subtype has
"shooting", "darting" eyes, the playfulness of which seems very natural.
The intuitive subtype, when not in communication, has an expression of
surprise written on his face, which he slightly lifts upwards.

As a subordinate
----------------

| **Strengths**
| Communicative and emotional. Know how to approach any person in case
  of need. Naturally charming and good at diplomacy. Will compliment
  others, strive to do nice things for others. Discerning in the talents
  and abilities of others, perceptive of their implicit motives as well
  as character flaws. Drawn to an extraordinary people. Interested in
  everything unusual and mysterious. Once invested in any idea will
  enthusiastically advertise it and become its active supporter.
  Impressionable and responsive, sympathetic towards people and will try
  to give them advice in difficult situations. Needs constant influx of
  new experiences. Resistant towards stress. In extreme conditions
  becomes mobilized and gives a volitional rebuff. In case of failure,
  he feels deeply upset but soon recovers. Enjoys aesthetically pleasing
  things, strives to dress creatively.

| **Problem areas**
| Due to his desire to maintain positive relations with many people, he
  can overload himself with useless contacts. Too trusting by nature and
  can say too much in conversation. Becomes quickly disappointed in his
  initial positive sympathies. May become too detached and exalted, too
  dependent on his moods. Does not like strict rules, especially those
  that limit his independence. Does not respect formal hierarchy and
  servility. Not accepting of conventions and prejudices. He is
  moderately disorganized and impractical, may not finish work by the
  assigned deadlines. Tends to get distracted by minor things. Sometimes
  lacks in patience and thoroughness and does not always finish his
  tasks and chores. Dislikes rude, people, but himself can also be
  quick-tempered, unrestrained, and sometimes even aggressive.

What cannot be expected from him:

-  Quality in carry out meticulous, detail-oriented work;
-  Systematic accounting and record keeping;
-  High levels of self-organization;
-  Ability to effectively direct others and distribute responsibilities;
-  Unemotional response to conflicting situations.

Recommended occupations: The humanitarian sphere. Teaching, art,
journalism, psychology, career advising, marriage counseling,
advertising.

As a supervisor
---------------

Person of this type has a lively but not methodical mind, which is
impulsive and intermittently active. He can work only when his desires
coincide with necessity. He needs to have many varied social contacts
and friends beyond the confines of his family and home. He usually
doesn't devote too much attention to mistakes of the past but says and
does whatever is convenient at present situation.

| Supervisor-altruist
| A person can be said to be "altruistic" when the interests of another
  person or of his or her social environment serves as the most valued
  and important motivation. "Psychologist" as a leader is able to fully
  realize himself in activities genuinely aimed at collective interests,
  while not pursuing any selfish goals.

Strong sides of manager of this type is his insight, discernment,
ability to see into the essence of a person and to understand the
different sides of a personality. He quickly and easily determines the
individual's place in the psychological structure of the group as well
as group's compatibility-incompatibility with the individual. He is able
to foresee the development of human relations and make appropriate
conclusions.

When establishing business contacts, IEE is mainly oriented at the
personal factors. If he likes the partner, he will be tactful and
diplomatic in manners. He is able to subtly and skillfully manage own
emotions in order to achieve a positive outcome. Emotions of this type
of person are perceived as ingenuous and unobtrusive. This evokes a
positive emotional response in others and leads to the solution of many
of his problems.

His methods of interacting with colleagues and employees is oriented at
building friendships and upkeep of a positive psychological atmosphere.
Whenever a conflicting situation arises, IEE takes initiative in
resolving these ethical problems. He is able to predispose people
towards a more confidential conversation and lift their tensions.

His business activity is impulsive in its nature. His efficiency and
productivity are to a large degree influenced by his attitude toward the
project. He is averse to routine, monotonous work; the necessity to
carry out repetitive steps or procedures is irksome to him. He prefers
acting on his intuition, often forgoing the more rigorous analytic
analysis. For these reasons this type of manager is quite rare in the
industrial sector, but more frequent in academic, cultural, leisure and
service industries, where his qualities of being attuned to individual's
emotions and personal needs are highly valued.

He is inclined to delegating style of management i.e. he will willingly
transfer responsibilities for some aspects of operation to other people.
He often does this in order to free himself from routine work. Will look
into issues the require a strategic approach. Sees well the present
prospects and potentialities. He is not easily discouraged by setbacks,
hopes for good luck and favorable coincidence of circumstances.

His style of behavior allows for compromises. He is yielding when he
sees that the other person is not pursuing selfish ends. However, if the
actions of his partner have selfish motives, IEE can manifest
stubbornness and risky activities.

Main characteristics:

-  Can adequately realize himself as a frontal leader.
-  Establishment of business contacts is oriented at personal factors.
-  Work activity relies on foresight, sense of good timing, anticipation
   of good opportunities. Susceptible to changes of mood (impulsive in
   productivity).
-  Inclined towards collaboration and compromise.
-  Achieves major results by selecting the right people for the group,
   fostering a positive atmosphere, and successful delegation of
   responsibilities.
-  Observes ethical values in business, due to which may be influenced
   by partners in business activity.
-  Motives: positive intentions in combination with personal success.
   Goal - realization of own capabilities supported by material
   achievements.
-  Strategy: complete freedom in management, maximal attention to the
   human factor. Can take up leading role in resolving ethical
   conflicts.

Working conditions
------------------

IEE is driven by incentive of uniqueness. He seeks to learn more, to
improve his own skill level, with pleasure takes up self-education. He
likes the type of work that provides a variety of contacts with people
and frequent switches. Therefore, if you entrust him communicating with
the customers, as well as diplomatic engagement with partners or other
departments of the company, this is the best way to realize his
potential. If you can find proper application for IEE's unique abilities
and knowledge, you will earn his confidence. However, be careful in
following his recommendations and advice. Remember that, despite the
strong intuition this type errs on the side of impracticality and can be
rather unrealistic and wishful in his opinions. IEE is not particularly
adept in handling everyday, routine matters that require scrupulousness
and attention to practical detail. He happily delegates tasks of this
kind to someone else who wants to take it up. Thus, surround the IEE
with colleagues who can provide help with such matters, who can tolerate
his impracticality and negligence for details - this will ensure
successful interaction. If you can also ensure that he has a flexible
schedule and support his desire for self-improvement and education, you
will match his notions of the ideal supervisor.

Recommendations for self-improvement
------------------------------------

The strong side of your personality is your well-developed intuition
that allows you to accurately identify intangible opportunities and
concealed abilities in other people. You especially acutely note the
negative personal traits in others. Trust your first impressions more,
since your kindness and leniency can make you somewhat idealize people
as they become more familiar to you.

You are able to be tactful and considerate towards others, attempt to
help them resolve their personal problems, do something pleasant for
them. Denoting other people's talents, you can make befitting
compliments, with this trying to raise self-esteem of each person, as
well as instill confidence in achieving the desired result.

Your other strong trait is your ability to establish personable and
trusting relations with others and thus predispose them towards
sincerity and confidence. This sincerity you try to use for their good,
to give diplomatic advice to help them disentangle difficult life
situations, to avoid making hasty and ridiculous decisions, which they
will come to regret later.

On the other hand, if a person did not fully justify your confidence or
aroused your antipathy, you will set up a barrier between yourself and
him and attempt to distance yourself. Your dislikes are as strong as
your sympathies, but you are more skillful at maintaining harmonious and
even relations with others and can be an excellent diplomat.

Your weak side is your inability to bring yourself to do laborious
detailed work, to follow rules and regulations, to carefully maintain
records, to work in very close quarters with many people, to respect the
official chain of command regardless of individual qualities of people
in leadership.

It is difficult for you to provide a dispassionate logical analysis, to
separate the primary from the secondary, due to which you tend to drown
in pointless unfruitful affairs and numerous hobbies spreading yourself
thin. You also find it difficult to properly allocate events in time,
which ultimately leads to physical and nervous exhaustion and
dissatisfaction with the quality of your life.

You may be recommended to establish a clear but flexible schedule for
the day and try to follow it. When planning activities for tomorrow be
sure to evaluate the objective importance of each. Trust your powers of
observation, but remember that they extend mostly to people, while in
business it will do you good to listen to the advice of the experts.
Read more and read thoughtfully, write down the most important rules and
information. Remember that to move forward you'll need more than
improvisation, enthusiasm, and generalized opinions.

Your other weak spot is underdeveloped ability to focus and poor ability
to control yourself in various circumstances. You are given to wavering
when making important decisions. Unexpected flashes of aggressiveness
can ruin your relations with others. Your courage and determination
often help you out in extreme situations. However, when everything is
still and calm, you can start feeling apathy and lose your drive.

Cultivate restraint and consistency, make yourself to do your tasks more
scrupulously and try to drive projects you have started to their end.
Try not to pressure people in your vicinity without a reason for it, do
not impose your advice or demand immediate execution of something. Try
to rule in your emotions.

If you feel that conflict is inevitable, try to immediately stop
communicating as to not regret later for what you had said. Don't get
anxious over unimportant and inconsequential things. Don't focus on your
own negative feelings, as this can adversely affect your health.

Additional Links
----------------

-  `Discuss this profile on a forum <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/42682-Article-ENFp-The-Advisor-profile-by-Gulenko>`_
