IEI subtypes
==================

Intuitive subtype Ni-INFp (Ni-IEI)
----------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The intuitive subtype appears as a calm, tactful, languid and diffident
individual. He seems torn from reality, inert and poorly adapted to
life. However, such impressions are erroneous, for he possesses a fine
intuition, which aids him in establishing useful connections and
obtaining support from influential people. Externally he seems serene,
but in his heart he is sentimentally predisposed, has bouts of moodiness
and melancholy, and regrets his mistakes and misfortunes for a long
time. His mimicry is somewhat monotonous, often shows an expression of
light amazement or full interest in his conversation partner. His gaze
is dreamy and pensive, slightly strained, with a bit of luster, often
expressing melancholy, attentiveness, or sardonic irony. His speech is
measured, smooth, and intimately heart-felt. On his face there is almost
constantly a polite half-smile that easily predisposes towards trust.
Gestures are modest, timid, undemonstrative. Gait is unhurried and
smooth.

**Character**

Soft and considerate person. In his heart he is a dreamer and a
romantic. Has figurative, associative memory, and can recall experiences
from the past down to the smallest detail. Somewhat unsure in himself,
inclined to doubt and hesitate in cases he has to speak or act
decisively. He does not like to hurry, can delay carrying out tasks and
finding solutions to problems to an indefinite period of time.
Reminiscing about the past, he recalls all the mistakes and mishaps,
then extracts from them lessons for the future. Thanks to a strong
intuition sees short-term prospects of affairs and relations, but
because of the tendency to idealize everything may also overestimate
them. Under any circumstances does not lose hope that in future
everything will turn out for the better than in the present situation.

Usually does not aspire to leadership and finds it difficult and tiring
to handle organizational functions. Gravitates more towards intellectual
sphere of activity than towards hands-on management and production.
Dislikes routine, monotony, stereotypes, conventionality, strict order,
having to follow rules and regulations. Likes to talk about various
unconventional and mysterious phenomena, seeks new experiences, feels
attracted to interesting and unusual people. Willingly accepts and
promotes unordinary ideas and innovative approaches, but shows caution
in new ventures; in such cases prefers to yield initiative to those who
are more assertive and energetic. However, if necessary, exhibits
outstanding diplomatic skills, achieving success where others, more
straightforward and impatient partners who do not attribute much value
to flexibility in relationships, would usually give up. Does not know
which of the two disputants he should favor, therefore, will try to
reconcile them.

In work can become distracted by irrelevant details, and thus run out of
time to accomplish the more important tasks. In his apartment or at his
workplace may allow for creative mess and disorganization. Being
practical, thrifty, and calculating is not in his nature, due to which
he misses some major opportunities. Respects strong, influential people.
Needs moral, physical, and material support. Due to absentmindedness
sometimes forgets to fulfill his promises, but then does his best to
make up and make amends.

Sensitive and attentive to other people, tries to maintain even
relations with everyone. Exhibits tolerance towards the flaws and
weaknesses of others. Does not break immediately those relationships
that have been exhausted for he grows used to people. Knows how to
patiently wait and how to adapt to any circumstances. For the sake of
good relations with those close to him, tries to meet their requirements
for him, to develop practical skills, to perform at school and work, and
to fulfill his family responsibilities.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Usually looks calm, dreamy, and contemplative. His facial expression is
typically interrogative. Line of behavior is frequently passive.
Romantic spirit, lives in the world of illusions and tries to avoid the
negative. Optimistic. As a rule, avoids conflict situations and supports
compromise. Constrained in the way he dresses. Elegant and refined. Can
fulfill functions of staff assistant in presence of a "strong hand",
take up work in psychology and psychotherapy.



Ethical subtype Fe-INFp (Fe-IEI)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The ethical subtype makes an impression of a soft, charming and
emotional person. Usually looks inspired and optimistic. Possess a fine
sense of humor. May talk of his problems and failures with a smile.
Ironic, crafty, unpredictable and inconsistent in behavior and
conversation. Creates original contrasts, can unexpectedly jab at
someone and then just as quickly embrace and kiss his conversation
partner. Artistic and charming; unconstrained in conversation,
occasionally even with shades of familiarity and impudence. Knows how to
bridge the distance. Considerate, tactful, and caring; at times he is
simply charming, so great is his talent at positively predisposing
others to himself and being liked. Talented at persuasion: states
requests in such a manner that it is difficult to refuse them. His
movements are refined ; his gait is graceful, hasty. Speech is full of
emotion, rich with shades, sometimes melodious.

**Character**

Emotional and charming, easily and naturally comes into contact with
unfamiliar people, predisposing them towards trust with his warmth and
sincerity. Able to cheer others up, make them laugh with his unusual
antics and utterances. Well versed in feelings and moods of people, able
to establish and maintain useful contacts for reaching his goals and to
find best suited candidates for implementation of the conceived. To each
person he is able to find an individual approach. Often puts his
requests in such a form that it is difficult to turn him down.
Independent by nature, impulsive, unpredictable in his actions; given to
impromptu acts and improvisations. Unobtrusive with his feelings - if he
does not see reciprocity, he will distance. Consults with others before
making important decisions, though does not always follow their advice.

Elegant, skillful in becoming liked, readily gives out compliments.
Enjoys being at the center of the attention. Figuratively and with a
refined sense of humor retells stories of his experiences. Enjoys and
knows how to reconcile those who are arguing. Sometimes he is given to
irony and ridicule, but says even unpleasant things as if in jest and
with a smile.

Very much in need of praise and encouragement. Sensitive of criticism of
his work or investing effort that has not been appreciated; this lowers
his productivity. While if he is praised in advance, this encourages him
to strive to overcome difficulties and aid him in gaining confidence. In
his heart he is very vulnerable and acutely aware of his failures.
Internally contradictory, prone to abrupt mood swings: from laughter to
tears and in reverse. Easy lights up with a new idea, but can quickly
lose interest if it requires a lot of patience and effort for
realization. Passionately tries to prove his correctness; accepts advice
only after he has calmed down, and even then only until the next
emotional outburst. Needs support of a strong-willed, capable, energetic
person.

Somewhat distrustful and suggestible. Readily shares his problems with
others, seeking their sympathy, understanding, and support. Inclined to
demonstrate his physical or personal sufferings. Sensing danger, he
transmits his apprehensive and restless mood to those around him.
Nonchalant and imperturbable, but this is only a tactic that allows him
to make a good impression. Sometimes he evokes awe and admiration in
others by demonstrating fearlessness in dangerous situations. His
composed serene state is transmitted onto others, allowing them to
distance from their everyday worries and problems.

Graceful in his movements, shows refinement, good manners, dresses
tastefully. Fastidious in his household. Possesses an aesthetic taste,
appreciates ornaments and decorations. Enjoys comfort. Cares about his
own appearance as well as appearance of others. Wasteful and
uneconomical; can purchase needless things; dislikes those who are
frugal over minor purchases. Does not attach much value to material
things, and thus can be careless with them. Borrowing or lending
something, may forget about it for a long time.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Entices, flatters, is charming and communicable. If he sees negative
emotions in his environment, he will try to arrange things such that
people will calm down. Mobilizes well in dangerous situations. Loves to
be in the center of attention and to dramatize what is happening.
Possesses a sense of humor. Easily manipulates with intonation and
voice. Can work successfully as a journalist. He finds it easy to entice
a person to start talking. Outwardly may appear extravagant, frequently
adopts a bohemian, bright look.



Additional Links
----------------

-  `Discussion of IEI (INFp)
   subtypes <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/44198-IEI-INFp-Subtypes>`__
-  :doc:`Contact and Inert Subtypes by Meged and Ovcharov <contact_inert_subtypes>`
-  :doc:`Subtyping systems and related articles <subtype>`
-  :doc:`Romantic and Sexual Behavior of Quadras and Subtypes <romantic_quadra>`
