IEI Profile by Gulenko
=================================


    
General description
-------------------

Romantic dreamer and visionary. Curious: not indifferent to anything
that is novel, unusual, and fascinating. Leaves an impression by his
unexpected, sometimes extravagant behavior and statements. Has a refined
sense of humor. Knows how to comfort a person, how to uplift the mood.

Emotive and charming; may smile even when he is saying something
unpleasant. Insistent in his requests when he is strongly motivated.
Knows how to pick a good moment to approach a person with his request.
Freely manages his own time and that of others.

Attentive to his own appearance and that of others, aware of its
influence. If necessary, dresses elegantly even exquisitely. In a
demobilized state complains of about his life and hardships. Likes when
he is looked after, when someone is attentive to his worries. Finds it
difficult to give up comfort that he has grown accustomed to.

Without strong directives becomes disorganized and demobilized. Cannot
focus his attention on a task for lengthy periods of time. In handling
money uneconomical and careless: may spend a large sum money on
something "for the heart and soul". May give promises that he hasn't
considered well. Entertains himself to drown out disturbing
premonitions.


Detailed description
--------------------

In his behavior the IEI is guided by his intuitive presentiments. Due to
this quality he is capable of surviving in the most difficult
situations. He quickly distinguishes falsehood, hypocrisy, artifice,
degradation. Often acts as if he has time to spare and puts off much
until tomorrow. Inclined to optimism, believes in a bright future.
Pictures and visions that the IEI creates in his mind are usually much
more attractive to him than everyday life proves to be. Can calm people
down, instill hope and inspire them by telling of coming changes for the
better. In conversation, dislikes highlighting mistakes of the past.

The IEI is well versed in nuances and ways of emotional life. He is able
to discern when a person is in a good mood to turn to them with a
request, therefore it can be difficult to turn him down. Graciously
responds to the humor in life. Tells jokes and anecdotes, acts in jest,
prods those close to him, evoking positive emotions in different ways.
Sensitively responds to fights between people who are close to him.
Seeks reconciliation, readily agrees to compromise. Will willingly
sacrifice himself to settle conflicts. Internally troubled. Experiences
a lot, but hides his agitation and poor mood behind a soft smile.

Invests effort to look after his appearance. Knows how to dress in style
and good taste. His graceful, aesthetic movements are pleasing to the
eye. Flexible and adaptable. Does not impose himself on anybody.
Instead, put in the effort to adjust to the habits and tastes of people
around him. Sometimes complains about his health, poor care,
indifference; however, in extreme situations will pull himself together
and suppresses his pains. In a comfortable environment around familiar
acquaintances he gains confidence and strength. In such situations may
even allow himself to issue orders.

The IEI is not inclined to save up money and keep strict track of his
finances. May spend substantial sums on aesthetically pleasing, from his
point of view, items that aren't always useful. If he falls into
financial difficulties, he knows whom to turn to for help or finds
something that he can sell. In long-term relations does not forget to
take into account pragmatic considerations. Poorly related to those who
force him to work at an unusual and uncomfortable for him pace and
rhythm. Hopes for leniency, indulgences, "smoke breaks" at work.

Gets along with people who are sure of themselves, strong and
determined. However, does not allow his relationships to turn into
despotism - in such cases IEI will openly declare the stupidity and
primitiveness of blunt force. Has a good sense of which kind of force to
apply to achieve his goals. Resorts to forceful methods himself only
when he feels a physical threat to himself or his loved ones. If he is
in a constant state of discomfort, begins to behave provocatively,
rudely, and aggressively; does it to hide his soft nature. In absence of
strong leadership, the IEI becomes relaxed and disorganized to the point
of carelessness. It is easy to knock him off the right track, to tempt
him with something that promises pleasant impressions. He easily
acquires bad habits, getting rid of which will require a lot of effort.

When there is no clarity and the situation is ambiguous, IEI's mood
spoils, he feels lost and confused. Chaos, disorganization, lack of
support plunge him into despair. He begins to act enthusiastically when
he is relying on a thoughtful, logical plan aligned with a clear end
goal in sight. In needs of various designs, schemes, and methods. In
extreme situations, becomes cool and unemotional. His thoughts become
clearer, and he finds it easier to undertake informed decisions.
Dislikes strict, meticulous control. Constant firm discipline is not for
him.

Life values and ideals are one of IEI's weak points. He feels very
worried if time passes, compromises and concessions become delayed, and
still no resolution has been found. Intolerant of oppression, of
leveling of his and others' abilities. Lives by the principle of
non-interference into the internal world of the individual. Although can
give valuable advice on unraveling of one's abilities if he is asked
about this. Of his own abilities the IEI is usually very critical and
often underestimates them. Afraid of being incompetent, not useful,
unneeded. In need of compliments and encouragement. Good at choosing
from available ideas the most promising one. Searches for an occupation
that would correspond to his ideal of service to others.

Supports his attitudes by actions. For those whom he loves, the IEI can
do a lot. Adventurous and enterprising if he feels that he has the
approval of others. Regularly performs his duties only on a team with
established system of interpersonal relations. Warns that personal
enmity and discord will lead to the collapse of the project. Tries to
ensure that his professional relations are also accompanied by favorable
informal ties. Contributes to a group a harmonious beginning. Persuading
people, manages relations in a manner that to him seems most beneficial.
Successfully refers to his acquaintances and uses personal charm.


Manner of communication
-----------------------

In interaction, a notable trait that allows to reliably identify a
person belonging to this sociotype - is an apprehensive, somewhat shy
smile, that appears when the IEI feels agitated, or when the
conversation subject turns to him in his presence. He is curious about
all that is unusual and original. Inclined to sweet chatter about all
sorts of interesting trivialities. It's difficult to focus his attention
on the essential things. Disrupts the general line of the conversation
by suddenly asking off-topic questions. Likes listening to interesting
or simply entertaining and funny stories, will recall funny episodes
from his life. In conversation sometimes he wavers, becomes coquettish,
delays with final answer, but has already decided on everything for
himself. Inclined to give empty promises. Always finds excuses for his
non-obligation, of the type: "I wanted to, but could not," "because of
the circumstances," etc. Likes to talk about his impracticality. But
with this he also can take up and finish commercial and business
projects fairly well. Flexible and resourceful, this helps him to keep
his position for a long time. Not a bad manager or leader, due to fact
that he can usually pick reliable associates. Persuades, calms down
people who are upset and confused, telling them that not all is lost,
that everything is still ahead to come, and in the same key.


Features of behavior
--------------------

Watching the IEI for some time, it is easy to notice the following
particularity - a contrast between his behavior in public or unfamiliar
company, and among familiars, including at home. In public the IEI
always behaves gently and politely, not permitting himself any rudeness
or disrespect. But in a circle of close friends he can sometimes behave
uninhibitedly. Likes to fool around, to create unusual situations. Stirs
people up to evoke positive emotions. At home can be moody, capricious,
stubbornly gets his way, may put on tears, even provoke scandals. These
emotional outbursts pass quickly, however, without hurting him very
deeply. His emotions are very flexible, switching on and off
consciously. In dealing with money, can be a spendthrift, cannot refuse
himself in anything, going into debt if his own means are not enough.
Loves beautiful, "salon" life, thus makes great demands. Inclined to
marriages of convenience. Complains about his bad life and suffering. He
likes to be cared for, to be healed and treated, for someone to listen
to his complaints about poor state of health, etc. Accumulates
complaints in himself, so that later with a good opportunity he can
spills them out all at once.

Appearance
----------

The most notable characteristic that allows you to safely assume that
the person belongs to this sociotype - is elegant appearance. IEI very
sensitive to harmony. A sense for matching allows him to dress sometimes
in a quite sophisticated way. Discerning in accessories and personal
items. Sometimes can look like a dandy. This applies to both women and
men. The second notable characteristic concerns his gait and his figure.
Figures of IEIs are encountered both thin and full, with a more
developed intuition giving a pronounced tendency to gain weight. But,
regardless of his figure, the IEI has very good command of his body. His
gait is often graceful, sometimes pretentious, with mannered steps. IEI
with ethical accentuation is easily recognizable by active and lively
gesturing. A characteristic to the IEI gesture is from himself and away,
with opening up of the palm. Eyes - are laughing, squinted, narrow. For
the :doc:`intuitive subtype <IEI_subtypes>` - wide and curious. During a
conversation has a tendency to look into the eyes of his conversation
partner, as well as take him by the hand.


As a subordinate
----------------

| **Strengths**
| Considerate, tactful, gentle person. Has a refined perception of the
  world. Often has developed humanitarian interests. Sensitive and
  attentive to people, tries to maintain even relations with all.
  Tolerant of shortcomings and weaknesses of others. Optimistic and
  romantic, has faith in a brighter future. Knows how to compromise, can
  patiently wait and forgive. Has a well developed sense of premonition,
  worries for how things will turn out, even though outwardly doesnt
  show this. Respects confident, reputable people who can give concrete
  and realistic instructions. In the interest of his work can show good
  diplomatic abilities, positively predisposing people with his modesty
  and charm. Has a good sense of humor. Able to find an individual
  approach to each person. Demonstrates refinement, good manners,
  gracefulness in his movements. Dresses tastefully.

| **Problem areas**
| Intrinsically vulnerable, contradictory. Somewhat unsure of himself.
  Prone to experiencing doubts and fluctuations in arriving at a
  decision. He needs to be drawn into work. Needs moral, physical, and
  financial support. Due to scattered attention sometimes he forgets his
  promises. In work may focus on something that is insignificant, become
  distracted by little things and run out of time for more important
  tasks. Dislikes strict rules, mindless submission to regulations and
  instructions. Being economical and clear-headed calculations are not
  for him. At work and at home may allow for "artistic" mess. Dislikes
  people who are illiberal over details. Sensitive about criticism of
  his own work. Willingly shares his problems with others, seeks
  understanding, sympathy and support. His work efficiency has
  pronounced periods of ups and downs.

From him one cannot demand and expect:

-  Continuous high efficiency;
-  Punctuality and organization;
-  Quick results on specific tasks;
-  Good ability to analyze a situation;
-  The ability to lead a large team, assign responsibilities.

Recommended occupations: Best if occupation relates to humanities. This
type can work well anywhere where he is required to elegantly
communicate with a small group of people. Recommended professions
include translator, librarian, writer, journalist, editor, may realize
themselves in the field of arts as critics, writers, and poets.


As a supervisor
---------------

A true "lyricist" possesses personal sensitivity and for a long time
remembers his impressions, his joys and sorrows, often returning to them
in his mind. He seldom lives in the present, but instead he recalls the
past and thinks about the future. True to his habits, does not like
significant changes. Often is indecisive and impractical, and requires
soft and friendly relations, otherwise he withdraws or leaves if he is
rudely treated.

| Supervisor-comforter
| The representative of this sociotypes able to establish personal
  relations with members of his work group, show them respect, courtesy,
  advice concerning consequences of their actions. He demonstrates
  understanding of their problems, empathizes, offers support often in
  verbal form. He spends as much time as needed to hear a person out. He
  is encouraging, complimenting, instills optimism, and helps them to
  believe in their own abilities.

IEI tries to avoid authoritatively making decisions concerning adopting
of unpopular measures. He prefers to share the responsibility with
others to distribute it so that it becomes almost imperceptible. This
type of leader cannot be considered to be neither frontal nor
hierarchical. However, he feels better in a hierarchically organized
system, where everyone has their position.

He has an inclination to imperceptible forms of control. This is due to
the fact that his psyche is filled with forebodings. He remembers
experiences and lessons of the past well and tends not to repeat
mistakes. This keeps him under constant pressure, makes him search for
sources of danger. Accordingly, his form of business activity is
oriented not at overcoming obstacles, but rather at exercising prudence.

IEI is better at solving problems of long-term nature. He has a good
sense of how events should be developing in accordance to the natural
evolution of life. Negatively relates to those who try to cultivate
conservative methods. He has an instinctive desire to develop, augment,
and bring to realization ideas that have been advanced by somebody else,
rather than extinguish and reject them.

In a conflict situation, he is inclined towards compromise. Every
situation is perceived by him with all of its contradicting tendencies,
thus he may take a long time to come to a final decision. Often, he does
not notice the strengths of one of the contending sides, the trends of
the moment. Can quickly change his mind to the opposite conclusion, if
the balance of power has clearly changed. In the dispute between the two
partners, it is difficult for him to give preference to anyone, for as
long as it does not become apparent which of the parties is taking over.
He orients at several possible outcomes of an event. One of them is
usually realized.

Main characteristics:

-  As a leader, orients at personal and emotional indicators, works well
   in a hierarchically organized system.
-  Methods of establishing contact are oriented at the human factor.
-  The form of business activity is focused on advanced vision and
   foresight.
-  The system of interaction with employees involves emotional control
   and the use of emotions as a tool to influence people.
-  Will agree to compromises.
-  Appreciates good relations more than productive results.
-  Relation to ethical standards depends on sympathies, antipathies,
   possible threats to his position. Believes that management decisions
   can be based on different "rules" depending on the situation.
-  Motives: profits with the limitations of the law, ethics can be used
   at his own discretion.


Working conditions
------------------

The impetus for IEI is the ability to be self-sufficient, to work calmly
at his own pace. He is inquisitive, and if his work contributes to his
self-development and is interesting to him personally, he is able to
work selflessly. It is better to ignore the fact that his performance is
uneven: in periods of high activity he will try to make up what he has
missed or put off doing before. IEI is able to work for the idea or some
distance prospect, even if he is not receiving any material rewards for
it now. If he sees good opportunities in the future, you may count on
his support. Due to their strong intuition, IEIs are often impractical,
unrealistic, and naive. They find it difficult to organize and
coordinate their life, to equip their home and their workplace, as well
as stand up for themselves when it is necessary. Thus, if you provide
him with some concrete and volitional support, he will decide that you
are reliable and decisive person, that you can be relied on, and become
one of your most loyal employees: due to their introversion IEIs are not
inclined to change jobs frequently. IEIs are romantic, aristocratic,
have a good sense of humor. Therefore, if you are able to joke
ironically, and occasionally present him with small but exquisite gifts,
you will find in him a lot of support and understanding.


Recommendations for self-improvement
------------------------------------

Your forte is developed intuitive perception that allows you to learn
from the mistakes of the past in order to ensure a better future. You
envision the future in optimistic terms. You are imaginative and
romantic in nature, enjoy beauty and art in life. Your creative nature
does not tolerate banality and mediocrity. You bring elements of
elegance and originality into anything.

You are well versed in the attitudes of people, have a good sense of
humor, know how to use it to improve your own mood and moods of others.
You possess a rich inner world of diverse impressions and feelings, and
you're very dependent on the nuances of your own inner states. You
experience heightened, sublime emotions and tend to idealize people. You
introduce aspects of celebration and sublimity into your surrounding
world.

Your main problem is that you find it difficult to regularly perform
boring, everyday tasks of purely material or pragmatic nature. You are
usually not economical with your finances and have difficulty with
housekeeping. You find it difficult to resist the temptation to purchase
beautiful things the cost of which may be beyond your budget. Be careful
not to waste money on unnecessary trinkets: you are at risk to suffer
financially.

Show more restraint in spending as to not put yourself into a
humiliating position when you'll have to find any ways to pay off debts,
even sell your things. Don't become tempted by your lofty visions and
illusions of "easy" life, while subordinating moral considerations to
them and attempting to avoid "the daily grind". Let your sincere
feelings guide you towards the right choice when you have to select
between the material and the immaterial aspects of life.

Your other problem is that you are not inclined to hide from others your
frustrations and complains about your state. You can tire others with
your complaining, make them distrust the sincerity of your sentiments.
Refrain from making excessive demands of others and complaints about the
lack of care in relation to you. To have the attention of others, try to
temper some moodiness in your character.

Be more generous and show active support for people. Try to earn good
favor by diligence and hard work, and by active participation in common
affairs. Refrain from giving empty promises. Do not spend your free time
in dreams, barren emotional conversations, and analyzing secret
anxieties. If you devote more of your time to some real concrete
activities, your chances to succeed in life will increase significantly.
