ILE subtypes
===================

Intuitive subtype Ne-ENTp (Ne-ILE)
----------------------------------

Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

Makes an impression of a detached, floating in the clouds, and
childishly na?ve person. Socially adept conversationalist. Reads much
and is inquisitive. Willingly discusses new information with his friends
and associates, shows interest in their opinion. His seemingly soft
demeanor is combined with obstinacy and imperturbability when he has to
defend his views. Likes to discuss things but rarely if ever ends these
discussions in conflict. Often smiles at others even if they haven't
provided any occasion for this. With the same smile talks about both
ridiculous and serious subject matters. Usually he is kind with everyone
and doesn't readily take offense at critical remarks. In his
undertakings and projects he is patient, and, despite being somewhat
forgetful and scattered, if he is really interested in something he will
follow it through to completion. His gestures and speech seem either
slowed down or accelerated. His pose seems at ease, gaze is scattered
and defocused, gait and movements lack in certainty and firmness.

**Character**

Interested in new, unusual or poorly understood phenomena. Curious.
Usually reads a lot and has a wide circle of interests. Likes to
surprise others with sensational news. Good at seeing potential
prospects of various ideas and undertakings. If he is sufficiently
provided for, prefers to occupy himself with that which is interesting
instead of that which brings a return. Can get thoroughly engaged with
one project or problem if for him it is interesting or beneficial.

Needs periodic emotional shake-ups. Feels delighted to have fun in a
circle of friends. Loves those who are friendly, confident, optimistic,
and can elevate the mood with provocative humor. Poorly sees how people
relate to him. Afraid to show his feelings first and doubts them for a
long time. Dislikes rushing things. Due to this, may manifest initiative
with much delay, when the opportunity is already gone.

Does not hurry with the implementation of plans or ideas, because he
believes that the main results are still ahead. Occasionally suffers
from disorganization, lack of will and initiative. At times he will rush
his work, attempting to make up for lost time. Resourceful and inventive
in difficult situations. When at rest, shows little initiative, unless
he is faced with a crisis situation, which stimulates him and increases
his vitality. Then he begins to actively engage in work, he promptly
carries out his assignments not sparing time or resources. Dislikes
routine and any regimented, monotonous work. Cannot live by a strict
schedule.

His character combines qualities of kindness, idealism, and trusting
nature. Because of his innate impracticality and gullibility, he can be
easily fooled. A sense of justice and faith in the best qualities are
inherent to him, so he finds it difficult to come to a realization of
such let-downs. Rarely gives compliments but is usually well-wishing
towards other people, tries to understand their wishes and needs, to be
helpful to all. Gladly gives advice on how to get out of difficult
situations. Avoids disagreements and conflicts. Supports good, friendly
relations. If necessary, attempts to explain the reasons for his
mistakes and unethical actions.

Not vain. Defends his own interests with less vigor than the interests
of those whom he cares for, although sometimes he can become principled
and unyielding in matters that are of importance to him. Not always
responsible and can promise that which he isn't able to deliver. Knowing
this, he sometimes resorts to never giving promises to anyone not to
spoil his relations.

Reluctantly deals with everyday life, yielding initiative to others over
such matters. In issues that concern aesthetics often relies on tastes
of his partner. Quite absent-minded and sometimes forgets what he needs
to do. Getting distracted by the little things, sometimes runs out of
time to meet important deadlines. Having to live by a schedule and
constantly maintain order feels like a burden for him.

Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Has a good feel for novelty. Not seldom becomes the author of many
inventions and discoveries. Unsurpassed generator of ideas. Bold and
forward-looking in his proposals. However, he easily drops tasks and
projects he grew bored with for something new, more interesting and
captivating. Capable of realizing himself in business. Characterized by
dynamicity and quick speech, gesticulates a lot. Often has solid pudgy
figure, looks with fortitude, if male may have a mustache. Places much
importance on external appearance.

Logical subtype Ti-ENTp (Ti-ILE)
--------------------------------

Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The logical subtype projects an impression of a serious person. Can be
sharp and even inconsiderate from time to time. Self-assured, speaks
rapidly and usually in a categorical tone. Can be unduly categorical in
his judgments with a tendency of imposing his opinion on others. At
times appears assertive and self-confident. Impatient, cannot always
wait for someone else to finish before interrupting. Often takes up
something new and tries to find it a practical embodiment. Actively and
vigorously defends his interests. While doing so, he may flare up and
offend someone, but noticing this tries to correct the situation. Rather
self-centered and may take offense at minor things, however, after some
time he once again becomes well-wishing and amicable. His behavior is
unpredictable and full of contrasts. His gaze is at times scattered and
at other times testing and tenacious. Gait and gestures are swinging,
seem confident but poorly coordinated. His pose is free and
unrestrained. Easily closes the distance, may hug and kiss his
conversation partner.

**Character**

Loves to expose everything to logical analysis. May be engaged in
theoretical development if it has the potential of being implemented
into practice. Critically thinks over old theories and methods and is
able to create qualitatively new ones. Can turn vague ideas into well
designed, easy to implement, concrete projects. Can feel potential and
future prospects, has a good marketing sense. Quickly loses interest in
what has been done. Due to this can scatter himself and not finish
everything that he has started, unless it concerns something that is
important and fundamental for him. Often completely changes his types of
activity and plunges into something new. Avidly engages in projects and
opportunities that cannot be fully exhausted.

Has an inclination to impose his views on others. In cases when he has
been proven wrong, it is difficult for him to admit it. Does not succumb
to intimidation. He can issue a challenge to a superior opponent even
without any actual chances of success. In arguments and discussions he
is excitable and often hot tempered. When he is put under pressure he
boldly and aggressively fights back. When there is panic, he calmly and
confidently takes the initiative in his hands, becomes focused and
decisive, acts quickly and logically. Can find a way out of any
difficult situation.

Active and energetic. Savvy in strategic questions and enterprising.
Readily attracts people to new undertakings if he considers them
promising. He is constantly on the lookout for new approaches and
solutions to the present problems. Doesn't stop on what has been
accomplished. Suggests radical solutions. Ambitious. If necessary can be
tough and assertive. Does not like to compromise.

As a leader prefers that everyone would be in their places occupied by
their work. Encourages people around him to activity, teamwork, and
cohesion. Democratic by nature, tries to be the first among equals. Not
inclined to show respect for ranks and conformity. Easily switches to a
more familiar language in his conversations with others. Shows his
positive predisposition by a handshake and a friendly smile. Tries to be
fair to all but is not afraid to say the truth directly. Wants to be
respected. Can be unrestrained in arguments and disputes. Tries to
distance himself from imposing people who want to use him to their
advantage.

From time to time needs to spend time in a good company or engage in
other activities (sports or hobbies) in order to raise his vitality and
spirits. Likes to make useful contacts. Since he is not always a good
judge of character, sometimes keeps questionable acquaintances. As a
consequence of this, he is inclined to periodically become disillusioned
with people. Has difficulties creating positive, stable relationships,
but despite being scattered he usually tries to keep his promises.

Mistrustful of feelings. Afraid to show how he feels being uncertain in
subsequent reaction of his partner. Painfully experiences uncertainty in
relationships. If he believes the reciprocity is there, he will honestly
speak of his shortcomings because he is afraid of letting down the hopes
and expectations of his partner and well as being let down himself.
Afraid of becoming dependent on his partner. Often puts work interests
above personal attachments. Any reproaches or criticisms irritate him.
Can vehemently and sharply defend his independence and point of view,
but later regrets it and tries to smooth things over if he cares for the
person.

Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Self-submersed and thoughtful person. He is attracted by ideas that
don't have direct connection to reality, for example philosophy,
religion, bioenergetics, and so on. His favorite occupation is to
compare different logical systems. A type of office researcher. Often
has an asthenic figure, can be angular in movements. Doesn't pay much
attention to external appearance, takes little care of his health.

Additional Links
----------------

-  `Discussion of ILE (ENTp) subtypes <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/1727-ENTp-ILE-subtypes>`_
-  :doc:`Contact and Inert Subtypes by Meged and Ovcharov <contact_inert_subtypes>`
-  :doc:`Subtyping systems and related articles <subtype>`
-  :doc:`Romantic and Sexual Behavior of Quadras and Subtypes <romantic_quadra>`