ILI subtypes
====================

Intuitive subtype Ni-INTp (Ni-ILI)
----------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The intuitive subtype seems balanced, calm, and even slow. Possesses
well-developed figurative and associative thinking. Reads a lot and is
given to contemplation and reflection. Likes to converse at length,
narrating something on various subjects or retelling something which he
has previously read. In conversation he is usually tactful, polite,
somewhat reserved, tries to avoid being overly direct and critical.
Frequently he feels suppressed and dissatisfied by something  either by
his state of health, or by being in poor spirits, or due to some other
cause. He rarely discusses his problems with others and holds himself
somewhat at a distance. Internally he is rather timid, contradictory,
and vulnerable, although he tries not to show this. His movements are
fluid and unhurried. Sometimes his figure is tall and lanky, other times
it is proportional, but he always seems calm and filled with a sense of
his own value. His gait and movements are smooth, may be somewhat
swinging and wavering.

**Character**

Possesses well-developed imagination and creative faculties. Inclined to
contemplation and passive life of an observer. Often lacks in
determination and confidence in himself. In his soul he is an idealist
who envisions a beautiful, harmonious, and prosperous life, but is quite
passive in finding the means to achieve it. Internally contradictory,
critical and distrusting, though doesn't always show this. Subject to
frequent doubts and fluctuations. Through his strong intuition he is
able to predict the outcome of any undertaking or behavior of a person
in any given situation. Often gives advice to exercise caution to avoid
unpleasant surprises and troubles. Appreciates old, time-tested truths.
Feels susceptible to the fluctuations of life thus he tries to foresee
everything; for example, before a trip he thinks over all the details
and brings with him everything that may become necessary. Prone to
remembering his failures and mishaps for a long time. Frequently falls
into melancholy due to excessive pessimism. Though he is often endowed
with a fertile imagination and loves new experiences, in reality he
gravitates towards stability, safety and security. When he feels too
bogged down by the monotony, he gladly takes on traveling.

Farsighted and prudent in the acquisition of new things or changing his
way of life. He rarely rushes the course of events and may delay and
postpone making important decisions. Thinks through everything in
advance. Dislikes activities and undertakings that are risky and require
improvisations. Careful, cautious and indecisive in new endeavors.
Person of habit. Dislikes unpleasant surprises.

Typically leads a somewhat reversed style of life and has a small circle
of friends. Rarely takes the initiative in interaction himself, doesn't
want to seem intrusive. Stable in his affections. Feels uncomfortable in
new company of people. Polite and easy in communication, but dislikes
familiarity and boisterous displays of emotion. Considers excessive
emotions just like any other extreme to be objectionable and unneeded
and calls on others to be calm and reasonable. Loyal, typically tolerant
of people and forgiving of their shortcomings. Shows magnanimity and
generosity towards others in difficult situations. Aware of his
obligations and does not promise anything if he is not sure that he will
be able to deliver it.

Values conveniences and comfort. Can work at a measured and constant
pace to provide for a comfortable and prosperous life. If he is drawn to
creative work, can become a tireless researcher. Whether he is engaged
in his work or domestic chores, he is thorough, conscientious, and
carries out his tasks to completion even if he doesn't make it by the
deadlines. Demanding of himself, can force himself to do work that is
unpleasant and uninteresting but necessary. Finds it difficult to
pressure and persuade anyone into anything - prefers reaching an
agreement on mutually beneficial terms. However, sometimes he becomes
very stubborn and intractable, especially if he sees that a person acts
without taking into account his advice or interests.

Tries to look after his appearance and health, keep himself neat and
clean, and dress tastefully. Rarely allows for bright color combinations
and decorations, as well as any other excesses.

Has difficulty maintaining an inner balance due to heightened
sensitivity and vulnerability. Due to his inability to control his moods
and to switch his attention to something else, sometimes he is
excessively fault-finding and cantankerous and other times too kind and
accommodating. His emotions transfer to others. Knowing this, he prefers
to spend time in solitude when he is in a poor mood, so as not to regret
later something said or done in the heat of the moment. In a good mood,
he is a charming and pleasant companion who with his attentiveness and
sensitivity predisposes toward trust and willingly shares his advice.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Researcher-theorist who paves the way with fundamental developments. By
use of analogies is often able to predict how an ongoing process will
unfold. Has a good sense for socio-economic tendencies. Possesses
extensive erudition and good memory, frequently gets stuck in details.
Is well able to provoke a situation, including a commercial one.
Experiences difficulties in communication. Searches for an opponent,
criticizes with a dose of biliousness, likes to underline deficiencies.
Ascetic and grumbling. Often has an asthenic figure, may be negligent of
his appearance and take poor care of his health.



Logical subtype Te-INTp (Te-ILI)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The logical subtype makes an impression of a self-confident,
sober-minded, rational person. Most often he is courteous, demonstrates
a critical turn of mind and possesses a sense of humor. He smiles
frequently but his smile seems somewhat monotonous and set. He tries to
be polite, therefore doesn't always voice all of his thoughts and
observations. Likes to subject things to analysis. Sometimes he seems
haughty and derisive. Skeptical, ironic, and mistrustful. Trusts more in
figures and facts than in hastily drawn conclusions. A good
rationalizer; he is able to discern the main points and avoid engaging
in tasks and projects that are futile in his opinion. Most often his
figure is heavy-set and pycnic. His gait is usually quick, movements are
purposeful and resolute. May actively gesticulate while speaking.
Appears somewhat gusty and impulsive, but usually holds himself with
integrity and calm dignity.

**Character**

Quickly assesses a situation or a new project from the point of view of
its feasibility and practicality. Likes realistic goals, while the
methods of achieving them he finds himself or through intermediaries.
Inclined to make rational actions. Takes note of all the details of the
case presented to him, emphasizing main ones and brushing unimportant
ones aside. Is able to extract maximum returns while applying minimum of
effort. Capable of making accurate economic and political predictions.
Encourages people to be active, but also warns against any activities
that are useless in his opinion. Notices all the contradictions and
imperfections of his surrounding world. Due to a developed sense of
skepticism it is difficult for him to properly assess the potential of
new ventures and people's abilities. While calling for prudence, he can
cool any excessive enthusiasm with subtle irony.

Possesses organizational skills. Tries to be able in his affairs and
knowledgeable over a variety of issues. Appreciative of quality work and
high qualifications. Has an interest in laws and regulations, collects
necessary and interesting information. It's hard to reconvince him in an
argument because he often proves his point of view supplying factual
information. Sufficiently stubborn, does not yield to direct pressure.

May have a wide circle of professional or business acquaintances, but
rarely becomes truly close with anyone. Fearing becoming dependent on
someone tries to appear self-sufficient and confident in himself.
Despite this, he is often in need of moral support. Likes people who
with their optimism can instill confidence in success. Critically
perceives the shortcomings of others. Sometimes cannot withhold himself
from making a critical remark, due to which it is difficult for him to
maintain smooth relations with others.

Internally emotional, but tries to be self-sustained. Dislikes falling
to extremes, but if his principles are violated he may flare up. Usually
restrained in expression of his feelings, dislikes making compliments,
considers that it's more sincere to talk of shortcomings. In this case,
with his straightforwardness may not spare another's self-esteem. Poorly
tolerates discomfort, both external and internal, and therefore tries to
smooth out a bad impression left by something he has said.

Thrifty, economical and practical. Dislikes excesses, can suffice with
less. Skillfully handles objects and finances. Good with handling his
documentation. Shows creativity in handling practical matters. Can adapt
and extract use from things that to others seem to have outlived their
use. Modest in his appearance and in everyday life. Feels awkward
claiming for himself any material privileges or rewards. Does not
attribute much value to accessories, but feels insecure if his
appearance does not match the tastes of his society. Rather passive when
resting. Due to weak self-discipline and certain measure of inertia he
underestimates the role of a healthy lifestyle, due to which his health
may suffer.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Practical, operational, maneuverable. Avoids taking up useless tasks and
activities. Tries to extract benefit from everything, does not allow for
waste in industry - everything must be reasonably used. Loves
gatherings, company, friends, a good table. Has a developed sense of
humor. Knows how to get along with those around him. Outwardly elegant
and sociable, however, of somewhat loose and relaxed in constitution.



Additional Links
----------------

-  `Discussion of ILI (INTp)
   subtypes <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/15943-INTp-ILI-Subtypes>`_
-  :doc:`Contact and Inert Subtypes by Meged and Ovcharov <contact_inert_subtypes>`
-  :doc:`Subtyping systems and related articles <subtype>`
-  :doc:`Romantic and Sexual Behavior of Quadras and Subtypes <romantic_quadra>`
