ILI Profile by Gulenko
==============================


    
General description
-------------------

Has a good eye for noticing contradictions and omissions in actions and
words. Skeptical about the prospects of hasty initiatives. Can provide a
characteristic for someone, predict his main reactions. Patiently leads
a person along towards taking the necessary step, preparing him or her
in advance.

Takes up only those tasks that ensure reliable returns. Thrifty with
money. Does the job scrupulously, slowly, attentively examines details.
Calculates everything in his mind. Tries to control the process. Able to
capitalize on information that he or she has accumulated.

Prudent in matters of comfort and health. Reckless methods and unfounded
enthusiasm are not acceptable for the ILI. At home surrounds himself
with familiar items. Often, he is a food gourmand. Observes cleanliness
and standards of hygiene.

He likes to discuss and argue on a variety of topics, but growing
hot-tempered he can spoil the mood for himself and others. Poorly
control his emotions: his states range from melancholic depression to
outbreaks of discontentment and frustration. His problem lies in finding
inner balance. Does not like when he is perturbed from a state of
tranquility and relaxation.


Detailed description
--------------------

ILI attentively follows the flow of life. He is keenly perceptive of
details and barely discernible tendencies. Explains which causes have
led to which consequences in present situation. Immersed in the past,
studies recurring phenomena. Due to associatively organized memory and
love of learning is often erudite. Clearly discerns contradictions and
inaccuracies in the positions and opinions of others. Possessing a
thoughtful mind can make an impression of a clever and far-sighted man.
Cautious when making decisions. His position is that you need to run a
little ahead of the game. Always chooses the safest course of action.

In his mind, considers the rationale for actions, calculates the
resources and costs incurred, draws the balance of the useful to the
useless. He seeks the shortest and the most worthwhile route to the
goal. Thrifty with money and knows how to save for the future.
Continually monitors revenues. Looks for places and ways to make
profitable investments. Before starting on something, he thoroughly
thinks through the methodology, examines all the necessary
specifications. Directs his efforts toward creation of sustainable
structures. Monitors the ongoing situation in his field of interest.
Capable of deriving benefits from information he has accumulated.
Orients well among fluctuations in markets of goods and services.
Creates catalogs, databases, archives, and collections.

Prudent in matters of comfort and health. Going out or going on a trip
brings along a set of objects that provide a guaranteed minimum level of
convenience. Keeps himself to standards of hygiene, maintains
cleanliness. Puts in effort into keeping himself healthy, sometimes
resorting to traditional methods. Often is a food gourmand. Can prepare
special dishes that satisfy his tastes. Predisposed to use of
high-quality, sophisticated products, although during times of shortage
is able to get by on very simple food. His external appearance is either
unkempt and neglected or, on the contrary, carefully devised in accord
with the current norms. This depends on his social circle and the nature
of his audience.

Estimates attitudes towards himself by displays of emotions. Boisterous,
intrusive, emotions he finds irritating; they have a subduing and
depressing effect on him. In extreme situations, or when he feels hidden
antagonism, he can openly express his annoyance, fly off the handle and
make demands in a sharp manner. If his state is poor, he transforms it
into black humor. Can deliver a short, acerbic remark. His gravitation
towards other people is once again dependent on his current mood. In
high spirits he can even be obsessive and intrusive; in poor mood he
withdraws and rests in seclusion.

When in good physical shape, he is confident in himself, assertive,
calls for decisive actions, however, it rarely comes to implementation.
He needs to be prodded from outside, requires strong support. Absence of
such support leads to demobilization and laziness. Direct aggression is
detestable to him; he opposes it in every way. He cannot endure
protracted confrontation  simply leaves or even falls ill. For his
physical well-being engages in athletic types of sports  tries to build
stamina and overcome his natural weakness, toughens himself. But to
engage in this regularly he usually does not have enough willpower.

His emotional state depends on how he is treated by others. Feels
depressed, if others do not grant him attention, if nobody responds to
his proposals and objections. If he is in poor mood, do not try to
comfort and cheer him, but leave him alone with his thoughts of express
indirect sympathy. In dealing with strangers, he can be polite, behave
as a well-mannered and intelligent person. Has a diplomatic streak; can
work on reconciling the interests of all parties. To close interpersonal
distance and strike up a friendship, he jokes, behaves in a playful and
unrestrained manner. However, if the other party does not respond, he
stop his attempts at rapprochement.

Resents that knowledge and intellectual skill rarely lead to the desired
results. He knows a lot, but to come up with something himself is
difficult for him. Skeptical about the prospects of new initiations and
adventurous ideas. Envisions and presents things as more complicated
than they really are. Although, he can instill hope into those who have
been demoralized. Keen to try his hand at different activities in order
to gain confidence in his abilities. However, he rarely attains
multifaceted development. With pleasure he studies all the novelties and
innovations in his spheres of interest. Able to find uses for things
that otherwise seem outdated and worn out.

Does his work is accord with the established methods, slowly and
scrupulously, going into all the specifications. Can be rigorous with
details and meticulous to the point of pedantry. Professional activity
and diligence are characteristic of him only within a formal system,
where there is structure and regulation. Tries to have a set of
necessary tools at his workplace and at home. Does not like to take
anything on credit. In business activity, he is independent,
self-sufficient and effective.


Manner of communication
-----------------------

The two subtypes of ILI are quite different from each other in their
manner of communication. The :doc:`logical subtype <ILI_subtypes>` is often
active and assertive in dialogue. Sometimes can be demonstratively rude
and vulgar. However, cannot keep up this unceremoniousness for a long
time, and subsides. :doc:`Intuitive subtype <ILI_subtypes>` of ILI speaks
softly, unobtrusively, with a smile. Leaves behind a general impression
of an intelligent, educated man. If it is necessary to him, knows how to
positively predispose others in conversation and politely make a
request, to which others usually respond. Unhurried, his manner of
speech is often languid and stretched out, especially giving
presentations and talks. This speech has a soporific, hypnotic effect.
Good at noticing and drawing attention to inconsistencies and
contradictions in theories, or someone's views. Able to predict the
course of upcoming events in an imaginative, associative form. Modeling
the behavior of a person based on his past personal experience with
them, the ILI can in great detail describe his future actions, by which
he evokes much interest in his listeners. Turbulent emotions, hustle and
bustle, fuss and hurry, he never shows himself. These irritate him, make
him feel sleepy and demobilized. He dislikes it very much when he's
prodded from state of calm and relaxation. Communicates with people at
close distances, earning their respect by his wisdom and foresight.
Skeptically evaluates any undertakings and activities. Characterized by
statements such as: "It won't work", "nothing will come of this",
"you're hustling around for nothing", "better save your efforts", and in
the same key.


Features of behavior
--------------------

One of the characteristic features of the behavior of ILI which becomes
apparent after some time observing him - is a tendency to business
activity of a commercial nature. Under normal conditions the ILI is
quite lazy and relaxed. He will take up only those projects and
activities that guarantee large profits. Knows how to sell a product
profitably. Moreover, his business activities can involve a rather
larger area. Usually distinguished by frugality. Dislikes giving gifts,
lending money to others. However, he's is quite generous when it comes
to himself, not stingy with personal expenses. Going out, going on a
trip, always carries a standard set of things to ensure a minimum of
comfort. Follows rules of hygiene to maintain his health. Frequently
washes his hands, tries to keep cleanliness. A clear logical sequence of
actions is characteristic of an ILI, which at times reaches pedantry.
Does his work accurately, without hurry, goes into all the details.
Scrupulous in home life. For each task tries to have an appropriate
instrument. Leaving the house checks appliances, water faucets, and so
on.

Appearance
----------

The most distinctive external trait or by which this sociotype can be
easily determined - is posture. Representative of the sociotypes are
usually round-shouldered, may stoop a little, with his head as if drawn
into the shoulders and inclined forward. ILI's eyes - are expressive,
somewhat sad. In them there is often a note of victimization (of
sacrificial nature). It's easy to imagine him being surrounded by a
crowd shouting "Crucify him!" The figures of ILI are very different:
from very thin to very dense, like the artist A. Dzhigarkhanyan, or even
overweight, as the poet Rasul Gamzatov. In his facial expression there
are intertwined wisdom with a kind nature for :doc:`intuitive subtype <ILI_subtypes>`, or sadness and touchiness for :doc:`logical subtype <ILI_subtypes>`. ILI's lips are usually poorly defined and
expressionless. During a conversation, he sometimes puts forward his
lower lip, his lower jaw is poorly directed and may even droop. Clothing
and appearance are very dependent on the subtype. ILI of logical subtype
may look sloppy, as if nobody takes care of this person, shoes worn down
at the heels, or curved. Intuitive subtype, on the contrary, is most
often neat, his clothes are generally well chosen, very clean and tidy.


As a subordinate
----------------

| **Strengths**
| Oriented at making rational, gainful actions. Economical, fastidious
  in work, conscientious and operative. Often erudite, spends a lot of
  time on reading and thinking. Remembers what he has read in great
  detail and vividly recounts it for others. Has strong intuition that
  allows him to make predictions about outcomes of any undertakings.
  Good at assessing levels of risk. Often advises caution and prudence
  to avoid unpleasant surprises and troubles. Perceptive of mistakes and
  illogic of any system and insensibility of actions of others.
  Punctual, if this is required of him. Modest at home and his
  appearance, but appreciates comfort. Polite in conversation. Has a
  sense of humor and can comfort the despairing.

| **Problem areas**
| A skeptic by nature. Notices all the contradictions, oppositions, and
  deficiencies in the surrounding world. Subject to doubt and frequent
  fluctuations. Poorly maintains internal balance. Not being able to
  control his moods, sometimes he is too picky and cantankerous, at
  other times too kind and yielding. His emotional fluctuations reflect
  on others. Because of his thoroughness does not always have time to
  see his projects through to completion, loses sight of the more
  substantial goals. Cautious and hesitant in new endeavors. He doesn't
  like to rush and hurry; mistrustful of people who run too much ahead.
  At times he is stubborn and intractable, if he is certain of his
  rightness. Does not comply with direct volitional pressure. Does not
  like to make compliments. Considers it more appropriate to talk about
  shortcomings and flaws. He finds it difficult to pressure or persuade
  anyone to do anything.

From him one cannot demand and expect:

-  Expediency in proceedings;
-  Courage and decisiveness in extreme situations;
-  Constant receptiveness and hospitality;
-  Emotional empathy.

Recommended occupations: Applied research in fields of physics,
mathematics, macroeconomics; conceptual analysis of complex problems;
assessments of levels of risk, counseling and prognosis; philosophy,
history and archaeology; informatics, archives and library work.


As a supervisor
---------------

Representatives of this sociotype are staid, phlegmatic, and
cold-blooded. By their nature they are very serious. They do not like to
make hasty actions, and instead wait for the time when circumstances are
favorable to the previously conceived plans. They do not like
manifestations of turbulent emotions and anything that disturbs the
natural course of events.

| Supervisor-adviser
| This type of supervisor anticipates the risks of actions that have
  been undertaken, provides timely advice on the way out of current
  situation, calls attention to details that have been overlooked. All
  this is typical of sociotype "Critic" in position of a manager. Such a
  person may very well solve problems of a strategic nature. ILI has a
  well-developed sense of time. His thinking is dynamic and dialectical
  in nature: he sees everything as closely related and existing in
  mutual alternations and transitions.

Guided by his intuition, ILI sees the timeliness or untimeliness of
actions and behavior of people. His intuition is objective: everything
must change by its internal laws, one should neither hinder nor
accelerate the natural course of events. Slowly but steadily he leads a
person to understand the need of taking some particular actions.
Radicalism only manifests when he sees that there was a significant
slowdown in the natural rhythm of movement.

His mind has a critical focus: good eye for flaws and omissions in the
theories and projects of others. Able to deliver before an audience
lengthy and detailed explanations of unfolding of events in time, then
make predictions concerning their outcome. Bases his assumptions on
contrasting and comparing the total amount of information that he has
gathered about a particular object or person. Clearly sees the futility
of enterprises and undertakings, and thus rarely undertakes anything
that doesn't guarantee some return in the future. He does not waste
energy on small, one-time events, and exerts himself only in cases of
major opportunities. Most of the time he spends waiting for the right
moment to get the desired result with a minimum of effort. As a rule, he
is always calculating, deliberate, and measured.

Feels as ease and more confident in an environment in which every person
is pursuing his or her own benefit. Elements of the market attracts him,
since based on his understanding of the flow and confluence of events
and his ingenuity, he can make profitable investments.

Maintains relations with others on a business basis. Loses interest in
people who do not bring any real benefit. Usually careful in his
business activities and doesnt hurry to give his consent even on tasks
and projects that are doable for him. But if he makes a decision, he
will try to implement it into reality with all his powers. People of
this type are usually very pedantic and rigorous: they check and verify
everything, try to not lose sight of the details. Because of this
quality, this sociotype cannot work quickly. When studying something
new, he relies on intuition less and instead places more trust in
information he has meticulously gathered and compiled on the subject.

He usually has an extensive network of acquaintances and business
contacts. Knows who is a good expert in some particular field and how
close that person is to success. Can pick up and work with old, long
forgotten inventions and discoveries. Seeks to breathe new life into
them. Meticulously versed in technologies. Creates conditions for the
production of prototypes, but does not know how to implement them.

Main characteristics:

-  Not inclined to seek leadership, however, if required he can
   adequately express himself in the role of a frontal leader.
-  Methods of establishing new contacts are far from emotional. Very
   important consideration for him is the usefulness of the partner.
-  Business activity is based on the principle: "minimum effort  most
   use and benefit."
-  His management style is based on the principle of collegiality,
   identifying abilities of his employees and maximizing the use of
   their potential.
-  A collaborative type whose behavior contains elements of compromise.
-  Achieves major results by maximizing the use of available resources.
-  Not able to manage by emotionally impacting people.
-  Management is often consistent with accepted ethical and professional
   standards.
-  Motives are usually law abiding. The goal is to profit within the
   official legislature.
-  Strategy: management oriented at human nature.


Working conditions
------------------

Critic is a self-contained type with a predilection for theoretical
reasoning. Most of all he is interested in problems of informational and
general theoretical nature. The "hustle and bustle" of worldly life is
of little value to him. Optimal regimen for him is independent work,
which does not require great physical effort and urgency, and which
provides the opportunity to exercise the mind. His career development is
gradual, his advancement proceeds step-by-step. When interacting with
his colleagues, ILI must always be aware that in spite of his knowing,
he is usually only outlining the problem without offering anything in
return. In addition, his ideas can be unrealistic and too complicated
for implementation. He is better than anyone in evaluating existing
trends, however, implementation of fundamental reforms to avoid
impending dangers you will have to do by yourselfdo not count on his
involvement here. As with all intuitive types, "Critic" prefers that all
problems of domestic and workplace set-up, supply and maintenance are
resolved by somebody else instead of him. So if you take care of him in
these matters, this will free him to do more creative work.


Recommendations for self-improvement
------------------------------------

Your forte is ability to foresee and anticipate the future course of
eventsyou can predict the evolution of situation over the course of
time and give timely advice to warn others of impending dangers and
difficulties.

You have a well developed ability for mental representation, can
envision and present what you have seen or read in great detail. You are
inquisitive, able to retain and store information on questions and
topics that are of interest to you, thus distinguishing yourself with
enviable erudition. You are cautious and prudent in making important
decisions, which makes others think of you as a clever and far-sighted
person.

You have the ability to create for yourself an environment in which
there is everything necessary for the rational organization of work and
rest. You value convenience.

You know how to motivate others and orient them towards beneficial
activities and enterprise in order to achieve higher levels. Good
tactical sense allows you to discover many methods of achieving your
goals.

Your main problemexcessive skepticism of new ideas and initiatives,
lack of energy and enthusiasm for their realization. This leads to
conservatism and passivity in your life.

You are predisposed to have a pessimistic perception of life. Often, you
are rejecting of radical solutions to current problems and optimistic
prognoses. You value stability and peace of mind, which in itself is
valuable to you. But times of crisis call for more activity, greater
energy and hope. Try to overcome apathy and a tendency for inactive
contemplation in yourself. The policy of an ostrich burying his head in
the sand will lead you to lose interest in life and negatively impact
your professional activities.

Excessive grouchiness leads to others resenting you and avoiding your
company. Cultivate a sense of tact. Try to refrain from making
inappropriate comments. Try to discern the virtues of people, celebrate
their dignity, give more compliments for their good qualities and deeds.

You shy away from scandals, yet give free rein to your negative
emotions. Sudden and excessive expression of your negative emotion can
shock other people and place you in a ridiculous position.

Another problem in your life is excessive fastidiousness and pedantry.
You delve into every detail and exercise too much scrupulousness in
performing tasks. These wasteful expenditures of time and energy can
lead to general fatigue, and even loss of interest in work. This will
lead to you quitting the job prematurely due to loss of interest and
desire. In that case, remember the reasons that led to this unwanted
situation.

You can make excessive demands on the quality and freshness of food. For
you it is characteristic to have ingrained, well-established tastes and
habits in your daily life. Pay more attention to advice that would
broaden your scope of tastes, habits, and views. Avoid following fixed
stereotypes.

Because of excessive suspiciousness during times of illness you can
abuse drugs, refuse to visit the doctors or listen to their advice. You
can underestimate the importance of an active lifestyle and engaging in
sport, especially the outdoor kind. Aim for a healthy life, and keep a
balance between enjoyable physical and mental activities.
