LIE subtypes
====================

Logical subtype Te-ENTj (Te-LIE)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

Makes an impression of a mobile, energetic, action-oriented and strict
person. Facial expressions lack in emotionality. Looks directly, at
point-blank range, studying his conversation partner, with his gaze
focusing for a long time on his conversation partner or on objects in
his surroundings. A bit timid and diffident, though tries to hide this.
At times, he is overly mistrustful, critical, and excessively
categorical. It is difficult to distract him from what he has planned,
tries to bring everything he has conceived to completion. Despite his
tendency to think and reflect, he is decisive and impulsive in words and
in action. Inclined to have longs talks. Seems somewhat uptight and
strained in conversation due to his desire to appear self-controlled,
composed, serious person with foresight. His apparent slowness suddenly
changes to haste and hurriedness. In most cases, his figure looks solid
and stocky in built, though somewhat rigid and angular in movements.
Tries to hold himself with dignity and confidence. If he jokes, does it
with a serious look, smiling only with the corners of his mouth.

**Character**

Hardworking and alert. Eagerly gets involved in various activities and
business that bring concrete results and benefits. Usually
well-informed, and tries to be credible and authoritative. Plans
everything advance, collects needed information for data driven
solutions. Strives for clarity and accuracy in all matters. Pragmatic:
will not take up useless and payless work. Leery of new proposals that
are not supported by convincing evidence. Cautious in his new endeavors.
Prefers testing new ideas in practice, to avoid making mistakes. Being
convinced in future benefits of a certain idea, tries to realize it into
real life with much enthusiasm and energy.

He is never satisfied with the current events. Always searching for ways
of changing, polishing, and improving the existing. Has a critical turn
of mind, and an inclination towards polemics. Enjoys developing new
projects and promising plans. Separates a given goal into steps, and
subsequently carries them out, thus bringing his given goal to its
completion. Dislikes being distracted from his work or business, and
when others interfere with his focus or try to impose others methods and
courses of actions. Quite principled in his views and convictions. It is
difficult to persuade him, or convince him otherwise.

Strives towards order, logical and rational sense in everything, though
he's not always able to achieve this. Interested in the worldly value of
things. Stimulates other people to activity and work by his own example,
as well as by making agreements on mutually beneficial conditions.
Poorly tolerates trickery and cunning. Respects people of their word and
deed. Not afraid of challenges and obstacles. Interested in testing
himself in extreme conditions, in overcoming all hardships and coming
through as the winner. Under any circumstances, shows fortitude,
tenacity, optimism and endurance.

In matters and issues of principle to him can show firmness and
intractability, defending the ideals of fairness and humanism.
Negatively refers to unceremoniousness and abuse. Correct and restrained
in his statements, tries to create a casual atmosphere in conversation
by his democratic attitude and humor. Good storyteller, describes events
in all detail. Readily shares his impressions and sensations with people
around him. Holds himself with seriousness and dignity, shows good
manners, politeness and courtesy. Doesn't tolerate when he is treated
with disrespect, can flare up and lose his temper in such cases.

Likes people who are serious and restrained in communication, in whom he
sees solid support in the future. Reliable as a friend, provides real
concrete help in difficult situations. Critical towards the mistakes and
flaws of others, but delivers his reproofs and rebukes in a soft form,
even if he is deeply upset. Poorly discerns feelings of his partner,
suspicious, afraid of making a mistake, of making himself look
ridiculous. Therefore careful in his emotional expressions and
admissions, tries to deliver them in a joking humorous form. Prefers to
prove his relation to someone by deeds rather than by words. Strives for
solid, durable, stable, and reliable relations.

Feels upsets if he is unsure of his external attractiveness, thus tries
to look good, aesthetically pleasant, and appreciates good aesthetic
sense and good manners in others. Practical, good at managing his
household, knows how to do much with his hands. Cleverly and adeptly
solves any household problems that he encounters. A supporter of healthy
lifestyle, but visits the doctors with much reluctance. If he happens to
fall sick, inclined to use folk and alternative medicines, patiently
trying to get better using various health systems. His persistence,
inexhaustible optimism, and will to live help him overcome any obstacles
on the way to achieving his goals.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Most dynamic of all TIMs. A pioneer in his field of activity. Seems a
spontaneous person. Very emotional and impulsive, therefore can be
inconsistent in his business. Trusting, due to his carelessness can
unintentionally land himself in complicated affairs. Can realize himself
in free market activity. Searches for supporters, with whom it is
possible to realize his own or shared ideas. If he loses, doesn't lose
his spirit and optimism, but proceeds ahead with his life. Pays little
attention to external appearances and health. Outwardly can look
somewhat thin, very mobile, if male may have a beard and mustache. It
happens that he leads a disorderly, chaotic, unrestrained style of life.



Intuitive subtype Ni-ENTj (Ni-LIE)
----------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The intuitive subtype is pleasant and considerate in dialogue. He can be
affectionate and cheerful, possesses a developed sense of humor, often
becomes the soul of a company. Inspired, energetic, and optimistic.
Mobile, restless, scattered, always in a hurry, aiming to accomplish
much in time. Very enterprising, boldly takes risks. It's hard for him
to concentrate on one thing for a long period of time. He has many
ideas. Always has several points where he can apply his efforts.
Diplomatic and gallant with everyone, especially with women, but can
show familiarity at closer acquaintance. Due to his inclination to
unceremoniousness, his sense of tact often fails him, and he commits
ethical mistakes, which he tries to correct and mend with the help of
jokes and his services. Behaves himself simply, uninhibitedly, freely
and easily. In conversation sometimes like to touch his conversation
partner, to hug, to kiss, to make jokes. His gestures and gait lack
ostentatious solidity and seem very natural.

**Character**

This is a person of action with a developed creative beginning. Has an
active practical mind, very curious, and boldly experiments. Often
constructs far-reaching but concrete plans. Impulsive, cheerful,
enterprising, easily takes initiative in new projects and beginnings.
Quickly turns to work, inspiring others to get involved with his own
enthusiasm. Bravely tackles implementing new ideas to life, as he sees
their prospects well into the future. Brave, resourceful, far-sighted
and shrewd. Instantly orients in extreme situations and develops an
effective plan of action. If he is not involved in some project or
activity, he starts to feel bored and his vitality falls, but usually he
is able to quickly find application of his abilities in any activity.

Somewhat scattered, inclined to get distracted by secondary and
unimportant things, due to which may put off the main work until later,
but after a while returns to it. Impatient by nature, may be careless
and negligent with details. Dislikes competing, manifesting selfish
interests, demanding his right to something. May cede his positions to
more obstinate and insistent partners. For the sake of justice or to
defend an idea in which he believes, may sacrifice his own interests.

Fluctuates in choosing which decision to go with, due to which it is
easy to talk him out of what he has conceived. Due to internal doubts
and contradictions he can be unpredictable in his behavior. With
difficulty endures the crash of his hopes, but, with the inherent to his
optimism, is not averse to start everything anew, not looking back.
Gravitates towards new impressions and changes, often changes his
hobbies and interests, tries and tests himself in different spheres of
activity and occupations. A romantic at heart, enjoys travel, sharp and
thrilling impressions, sometimes tests and risks with his fate. Faithful
in relations, but not averse to flirting. His personal life is often
rather complicated and changeable.

Emotional, fidgety, restless. Tries to do everything in time and feels
very worried when he sees that he cannot accomplish everything by the
deadlines. He is often in a hurry himself, and hurries and urges others.
Negatively refers to those who are lazy, who seek convenience and
enjoyment. In conversations, he is lively and welcoming. Seems sincere,
original, straightforward, and predisposing towards trust. Attentive
towards other people, delves into their problems, gives advice, offers
his services, tries to encourage them, make them laugh with jokes. If in
the interests of the work or business he finds it necessary to put
pressure on other people, tries to do it in inoffensive form, although
he may be too direct and pushy. Sometimes his sense of tact fails, and
he can inadvertently offend his conversation partner, but then he tries
to fix the situation immediately or very soon. He is docile in nature:
it's difficult to pick a quarrel with him.

Interested in various unsolved and unexplored phenomena. Tries to
comprehend the essence of various events and manifestations. Reflects
and thinks over scientific, moral, and philosophical questions. In his
soul he is somewhat suspicious and superstitious. At home undemanding,
can do with very little. Loves children and animals. Pays little
attention to his appearance. Wanting to be loved not for his appearance,
but for his inner qualities. In need of a person who can keep him from
committing rash actions.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Seems a calm and balanced person who leads an orderly lifestyle. Well
perceptive of good opportunities. Calmly selects which idea it's best to
put into action. Always finds the most optimal and advantageous
solution, that will lead to the greatest benefit. Often this is a kind
of natural scientist, tester and experimenter, who works with both his
mind and his hands. Can take up natural and physical sciences or
painting, in everything he tries to bring things to completion.
Excellent game technician, experimenter. Gets along well with children,
easily getting them involved by interesting activities. Outwardly looks
somewhat restrained, usually has a more solid and stocky built than the
logical subtype. Dresses well and looks after his health.



Additional Links
----------------

-  `Discussion of LIE (ENTj)
   subtypes <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/46746-LIE-ENTj-subtypes>`_
-  :doc:`Contact and Inert Subtypes by Meged and Ovcharov <contact_inert_subtypes>`
-  :doc:`Subtyping systems and related articles <subtype>`
-  :doc:`Romantic and Sexual Behavior of Quadras and Subtypes <romantic_quadra>`
