Life Scenarios: From Ethical Feelings to Sensory Wishes by Victor Gulenko
==================================================================================

.. warning::
    This page or section **needs work**.

| Published by `Victor Gulenko <Gulenko>`__ in *"Socionics, Mentology, and Psychology of Personality"*, 1996,  1.
| **Partial translation--needs further translation work.**
| `Original article <http://www.socioniko.net/ru/articles/lifesc.html>`_.


| *We were thrown out of heaven, and we had*
| *made every effort to keep*
| *midway between heaven and hell.*
| J. L. Moreno

From personal life of sociotypes.
---------------------------------

Previous observations made on the personal life of various sociotypes
gained in the course of consultations allow me to make some
generalizations. In this article I will show how it is possible to
predict the trend of development of relations in a pair if the people's
sociotypes are known. It should immediately be said that a specific
forecast methods of traditional socionics impossible.

The practice of our laboratory suggests that in order to study the
relationship of people on short-range communication needed deeper
differentiation of levels [3]. Yet, delving into the erotic side of
relationships between people, it is possible to allocate, on the one
hand, subjects of feelings, but on the other - they are objects.

Subjects feelings - are sources of likes and dislikes, taking their
subjective assessment of the other person as trustworthy. These are
people who believe in an emotional choice. With an excess of feelings,
they consciously reach for those who would like to share their
experiences of the charge. In private life it is more important to love
yourself than to be loved. Or rather, they do not lose the hope to
initiate reciprocal feeling from those who attract them subjectively. It
senses the subjects you most likely will find a one-sided love,
unrequited.

Objects of the senses - the ones who lit himself only in response to the
feelings of others. In any case, they do not show their feelings first,
because they do not believe in an emotional (not to be confused with the
sexual!) Choice. Therefore, objects of the senses are the easiest way:
expect any signal that they are welcome. In sympathy, they usually
respond sympathies, and antipathies - dislikes. Subjects of the senses,
from the point of view of Socionics - this ethics that live heart more
than the mind. Objects of the senses - is the logic of living longer
mind than heart gusts. Ethics, therefore, tend to sensual choice on who
they like; logic is selected usually the person to whom they like.

Note. I draw your attention to the fact that it is not about sex, but
about the ethical-emotional behavior. By sympathy in this context, I
understand the peace, rather than carnal desire.

However, we must not forget that human sociability is not confined to a
private life. In his biography except for family and friends there is a
second, no less significant part - colleagues and business partners.
Here everything is just the opposite. Logic work pays always more effort
and attention than ethics. It should not be this statement to mean that
the first spends more time at work than the second. After all, while at
work, you can among objectively necessary Affairs satisfy their personal
communication needs!

Some are expecting, others are acting.
--------------------------------------

The situation is complicated by the fact that these two categories of
people realize their inner motivation - work at the expense of his
personal life or vice versa - in different ways. You can also select the
two extremes between which oscillate people.

The first - a wait and see attitude. Her take those types who tend to
take cognizance of other people's suggestions. A conscious expectation
can be directed towards business proposals, if this logic, any
suggestions of a personal nature, if it is ethics. Either way - it's an
introvert position - the types that take more than give out, and if they
give out, it was mostly in response to an external stimulus.

The opposite position - expansive, widening. Its owners themselves take
the initiative, without waiting for others will. Ethics with this
position, again, enterprising in his personal life, and logic - in the
objective matters. This behavior is typical of extroverts - those types
that are no longer give verbal or behavioral information, than take it
from others.

And now a couple of comments about the communicability. Digression on
the subject is necessary due to the fact that the concept of
extra-introversion is interpreted in socionics is not so, as in
traditional psychology. Among psychologists has developed a persistent
view that extroverts - it necessarily sociable people and introverts -
closed. But if it is so simple, then why it took Jung introduce new
terms?

Communication is different. We need to clearly separate the formal and
informal communication. Ethical extroverts if pure types do in any
situation are focused on human contacts. But it is very sociable and
many ethical introverts. This is not surprising, because they are well
feel it in an informal atmosphere, where the main role is played by the
subjective feeling.

Logical types, even extroverted, in these conditions can be very
non-contacting, because then they have no reference points and therefore
are only objects of other people's sympathies, antipathies. In sphere of
production, however, everything is just the opposite. Active subjects of
business and affairs - are extraverted logical types. In formal
communication, their focus on the external business environment is
maximized. It is in contact not with his friends, but with colleagues
and operatives, that logical extroverts far surpass the ethical types.

Communication styles.
---------------------

The first distribution sociotypes on logic and ethics intersect with the
second distribution to extroverts and introverts form four groups of
communicability. Schematically, it looks like this:

[picture not included]

First, we analyze the contrasting, easily noticeable in the life of
types of communicability - extroverted and introverted, ethics, logic.

1. Extroverted ethics, or PASSIONATE communication style. In
conversation, their position is an active search for feelings. They
bring emotions to people around them. In their life scenarios, it is
typical of them to marry earlier on the average than individuals other
sociotypes. However, they also divorce more frequently than other
sociotypes. These types understand dialogue as an exchange of emotions,
as a kind of "sailing" through active currents of life. This group is
designated as ER: their Ego blocks hold either ethics of emotions E (Fe)
as the first function, or ethics of relations R (Fi) as the second
function.

2. Introverted logic, or COLDBLOODED communication style. Their
communication style is opposite to the "Passionate" group. Their
position in informal dialogue  is a passive anticipation of feelings.
Communication of these types flows according to established courses and
norms. Their life scenarios suggest that they marry later in life than
representatives of other types and are not inclined to re-marry. Their
marriages, as a rule, are the least successful. They understand
communication as an exchange of lacking information of explanatory
nature. Such communication doesn't lose much if it is carried out only
in a written form. This group is designated as LP: their Ego blocks
contain either structural logic L (Ti) as the first function, or
business logic R (Te) as the second function.

Among these two poles the communicability - a bright one and a dim one -
are two medium types, which fit into the framework developed by society
stereotypes of the behavior of the opposite sex.

3. Extroverted logic, or BUSINESS-INCLINED communication style. This is
a stereotypically male communication style. Their communication style
can be called an active expectation of feelings. Business-inclined
sociotypes expect to meet their other half in the whirlpool of their
activities. The standard image of a typical man prescribes him an active
position in life, but not in the area of feelings. In romantic
literature, the hero gets acquainted with his future beloved by rescuing
her from troubles. These sociotypes interpret communication as a
business cooperation. This group is designated as PL: their Ego blocks
contain either business logic R (Te) as the first function, or
structural logic L (Ti) as the second function.

4. Introverted ethics, or SINCERE communication style. This is a
stereotypically female communication style. This position can be
described as a passive search for feelings. Being ethical, sincere
sociotypes confidently choose a partner who has appealed to them, but as
introverts, they express their openness to relational contact by
indirect signals. This is the kind of behavior that is expected from a
woman during the premarital period in traditional societies. These
sociotypes are most inclined to "home-making" with stereotypical
distribution of roles: man  as the bread-winner and defender of the
family, woman  as the guardian of the family and nurturer of children.
They understand communication as an exchange of signs of
soulful/heartfelt attachments. This group is designated as RE: their Ego
blocks contain either ethics of relations R (Fi) as the first function,
or ethics of emotion E (Fe) as the second function.

Complimentary communication styles.
-----------------------------------

4.1.

For analysis of intergroup relations, I will be relying on the
following, known to me through experience socionics observations and
consultations, tendencies in life:

-  Ethical type is instinctively drawn to logical type, and vice versa.
   The psychological atmosphere in a purely logical pair turns out to be
   too dry and boring, and in a purely ethical pair - very hectic and
   overloaded with emotions. Secondary in strength attraction is
   possible between two logical types if one of them has intensified
   emotionality, or between two ethical types if one of them possesses
   intensive logical inclinations.

-  Introvert is instinctively drawn to the extrovert, and vice versa,
   although the strength of this attraction and not as strong as in the
   first case. Extroverts win over, and introverts allow themselves to
   be won over. Peaceful coexistence of the two extroverts is possible
   only when they artificially divide their spheres of activity. Almost
   always, however, in such pair there arises a struggle for power, and
   the loser feels himself slighted. The union of two introverts may not
   be as unfavorable if one of them assumes the role of an active in the
   external world person. Without such special measure, this pair is
   practically destined to self-isolation.

4.2.

Conducting socionics consultations for harmonization of interpersonal
relations in a couple, it is recommended to consider the following
averaged scenarios of intertype dynamics.

1. "Business-like" (PL) and "Sincere" (RE) types.

   The successful combination of these two types of communication styles
   allows to achieve homeostasis  a self-sustaining state of
   equilibrium within the system and in its external interactions with
   the environment. In the event of internal disagreements between the
   partners, the "Business-like" partner, as an extrovert, actively
   influences the "Sincere" partner, who without much resistance yields
   to his influence. Due to "Sincere" partner's ability to smooth out
   the sharp edges equilibrium is restored. When this couple has
   conflicts with others people, the "Sincere" partner feels more upset,
   since he/she is an ethical type. However, due to introversion,
   "Sincere" partner simply presents the problem to the "Business-like"
   partner, who undertakes appropriate measures. As a result, this pair
   is stable against destructive external influences.

2. "Passionate" (ER) and "Cold-blooded" (LP) types.

   This is another good combination of types of communication, capable
   of providing natural self-regulation in a couple. This scenario
   unfolds as follows. In the event of internal conflicts in this pair,
   the "Passionate" partner begins to influence the "Cold-blooded"
   partner from the position of extroverted expansion in order to change
   his partner's behavior to his favor. However, the "Cold-blooded"
   partner, being little inclined to emotions, does not give in to these
   attempts. However, over time his behavior changes simply as a
   consequence of changes in his own assessment of the situation. The
   "Passionate" partner feels satisfaction from this, and by that time
   his ardor has already cooled down, and conflict naturally
   extinguishes itself. In the case of external aggression, the
   "Cold-blooded" type is inclined to ignore it and continue with his
   activities as if nothing has happened. This restrained position is
   very appealing to the "Passionate" partner, for it allows him to take
   care of the emerging ethical issues on his own.

The types of interactions described above contain, in generalized form,
4 intertype relations. The most successful combinations are dual pairs
LSE-EII, ILE-SEI, SLE-IEI, and LIE-ESI, followed by semi-dual,
supervision, and conflict relations. Even conflicting relations, when
partners gain certain safe distance, possess stability. In dual
relations, on the contrary, homeostasis is reached only at close
communicative distances.

4.3.

The following two kinds of relationships provide psychological
homeostasis only partially. Compatibility between them is of average
significance. Either internal disagreements or external destructive
influence can undermine these relations.

3. "Business-like" (PL) and "Cold-blooded" (LP) types.

   Events in this pair usually follow this scenario. Both partners in
   this pair are quite indifferent to ethical influences.
   "Business-like" partner tries to use "Cold-blooded" partner for his
   purposes, but his efforts don't lead to anything. Over time and after
   a series of unsuccessful attempts, the desire of "Business-like"
   partner to change situation to his own tastes fades, and partners
   start drifting apart. Internal equilibrium, nevertheless, is attained
   in this way. In relation to people around them, this pair turns out
   to be insensitive. Each is busy with something of his own. However,
   if external influences are so strong that they affect the
   low-activity ethical functions of partners, quarrels begin between
   them concerning how to respond. This impaired balance with the
   outside world for them is very difficult to restore.

4. "Passionate" (ER) and "Sincere" (RE) types.

   The particularities of adaptation to each other here are as follows.
   Each partner in this pair, being an ethical type, has a good sense
   and understanding that any conflict that arises between them has a
   very negative impact on life and activities of the other. However,
   only the "Sincere" partner will try to change his or her own
   behavior. The "Passionate" partner will only demand change in
   partner's behavior. Since the "Sincere" type will usually yield,
   peace will be recovered after a series of emotional outbursts. If
   this pair has conflicts with others around them, events immediately
   become dramatized. In this pair, there is an observable tendency to
   transfer any impairment in external relations to their own internal
   conflicts. Any discussion of external events can easily lead to a
   quarrel. The driving force of such a scenario - an excess of
   emotions. Equilibrium of this pair is thus unstable against internal
   differences.

Less complimentary communication scenarios.
-------------------------------------------

1. "Passionate" (ER) and "Business-like" (PL) types.

   This life scenario is perhaps the most dynamic and controversial one.
   Since both partners are extroverts, each partner tries to change the
   behavior of the other. Both are active and do not wish to adapt to
   the other. "Business-like" partner finds an outlet in an even greater
   amount of work and activities, while "Passionate" partner attempts to
   sort out their aggravating relations. Conflict becomes even more
   inflated due to this. In relations with people around them, both try
   to actively influence the outside world and begin to compete with
   each other for leadership. With this, the "Business-like" partner
   plays a more active role in these collisions, because he believes
   that the "Passionate" partner's lack of emotional restrained harms
   their common cause. This pair is quarrelsome: it is very difficult to
   achieve stability in it against both internal and external negative
   factors.

2. "Sincere" (RE) and "Cold-blooded" (LP) types.

   This life scenario is infused with internal contradictions and
   oscillations. Due to introversion, in the event of disagreements,
   each partner seeks to change primarily himself or herself. However,
   the response of "Sincere" partner comes quicker and is more
   noticeable. Thus, he begins to believe that he is sacrificing himself
   for the sake of peace in this relationship. "Cold-blooded" partner as
   if doesn't notice these peace-ensuring actions. An impression arises
   that he does not appreciate the sacrifices of the "Sincere" type.
   This creates tension in their relationship. At the same time, neither
   of them can change the surrounding them world towards a more
   favorable for them outcome due to their introversion. Therefore,
   external negative impacts on such a pair can easily destroy it. The
   more unstable in this respect turns out to be the "Sincere" partner,
   having sensitive perception of external sympathies and antipathies.
   Consequently, this pair does not have effective mechanisms for
   maintaining homeostasis.

3. Two "Business-like" (PL) types.

   Both seek to influence their partner for the sake of achieving their
   own goals, but both are also unreceptive towards such influences. As
   a result of this, brief but intense conflicts often break out in such
   a couple. Both attempt to influence people around them, but don't
   really know how to coordinate their actions. Each does everything for
   the purpose of turning the course of events in his favor.
   Compatibility improves only when both stand as a united front against
   an external competitor or opposition.

4. Two "Passionate" (ER) types.

   In such highly communicative pair petty accusations against each
   other cannot be avoided. Each will try to affect the other in an
   extroverted manner, but neither of them gives way. It will seem to
   both of these partners that the other does not understand them, so
   there will be a strong desire to sort out relations. However, any
   attempts to prove one's correctness to the other partner usually lead
   to nothing. Due to this, conflict does not fade for a long time. In
   contact with their environment, both compete in the emotional impact
   on it. Such a pair is easily made to quarrel, since the emotional
   excess in it must find an outlet. In the case of defending mutual
   interests against external encroachments the coordination of joint
   activities is complicated. Reaching equilibrium in communication for
   the long term in this pair is unrealistic.

5. Two "Sincere" (RE) types.

   Each partner in this pair will try in every way to avoid collisions.
   This stabilizes the couple as a whole. However, if a conflict between
   them does arise, its cause will be seen in the actions of the other
   partner. This reduces the degree of reciprocity in relations.
   Although this pair easily compromises, it is also touchy and lacking
   in honesty. External problems each partner tries to solve
   independently, without the help of the other, as each soon becomes
   convinced that prompting the other to extraverted actions doesn't
   lead to anything. The consequence of such a position - is mutual
   disappointment in the competitiveness of each other. However, the
   existence of a common acceptable goal or purpose can unite "Sincere"
   couple quite strongly. This goal should be in maintaining a warm
   psychological atmosphere and existing relations within the framework
   of significant to them micro-collective. For example, in raising
   children.

6. Two "Cold-blooded" (LP) types.

   Rather unfortunate life scenario due to lack of activity and
   emotional warmth. Each of the partners is insensitive to the efforts
   of the other and responds to his actions with much delay. Therefore,
   although this couple rarely conflicts, there is practically no
   positive cooperation between them. One partner leaves the other
   partner alone, and is content that he's not being bothered himself.
   Emerging conflicts fade rapidly, since no one "adds fuel to the
   fire". When external circumstances change, each partner tries to
   independently adapt to the changes. Help for each other turns out to
   be minimal. Due to this, an atmosphere of alienation arises in this
   pair. Uniting goal or purpose can improve compatibility in this pair,
   such as development of methods, procedures, schemes, instructions, or
   forecasts.

"Benefit" types are better suited for joint enterprises than identical
or business types. It has been observed that "benefactors" become pulled
to their "beneficiaries", hoping to find in them "contractors"
("executors") of their ideas and plans [4].

Contact with psychoanalysis.
----------------------------

If by psychoanalysis we understand revealing unconscious causes for
difficult to predict actions or experiences of a person, related to some
extent with his libido, then socionics possesses in its toolbox several
pairs of distinctive traits, which, even if with a stretch, but still
allow one to simulate some general psychoanalytic personality traits.
What are these traits? Firstly, the axis "sensing-intuition". The effect
of its poles is largely unconscious. Intuitive flashes of understanding
- are the opposite of rational experience, attained over months and
years. Sensing is in actuality innate instinctive reactions to possible
irritations of the organism that is interacting with its environment,
which are also rooted in the subconscious part of the psyche. By the
way, at the everyday household level of life, sensing irrational types
refer to the jungian sensing function also as intuition.

Secondly, there is the axis "resoluteness-discursiveness". With the help
of this pair of traits, the socion is divided into two pairs of blocks.
The second and third quadra are "resolute" - or decisive (lat. *resolvo*
- resolving, untangling, untying) i.e. given to hard, harsh, sharp
volitional actions that abruptly resolve disagreements. The first and
fourth quadra are "discursive" - or advisory (lat. *discutio* - to
discuss, negotiate) i.e. given to open and broad discussions of any
disagreements that arising in the course of action. This pair of
typological traits, that is closely related to the primary values ??of
quadra, takes its origin, apparently, in the Jungian archetypes of the
collective unconscious.

Isolated by these two axes groups I will analyze in the light of latent
psychosexual tendencies of sociotypes. I draw readers' attention to the
fact that now the discussion will be about instinctive, sensual aspect
of erotic relationships, as opposed to the spiritual and the platonic,
the consideration of which was in the first half of this article.

Thus, the axis "sensing - intuition", which I include here for
conditional representation of individual forms of unconscious,
intersecting orthogonally with the axis "resoluteness-discursiveness",
that represents in its first approximation those psychological traits
that Jung has called the collective unconscious, form four
psychoanalytic groups of sociotypes:

.. image:: images/romance.png
   :align: center

Let's assign these following names to the resulting groups:

-  Discursive sensory types: ESE, Enthusiast; SEI, Mediator; LSE,
   Administrator; SLI, Master; (S-group) - "Caring"
-  Resolute sensory types: SLE, Coordinator; LSI, Inspector; SEE,
   Politician; ESI, Guardian; (F-group) - "Aggressive"
-  Resolute intuitive types: EIE, Mentor; IEI, Lyric; ILI, Critic; LIE,
   Entrepreneur (T-group) - "Victim-like"
-  Discursive intuitive types: LII, Analyst; ILE, Seeker; EII, Humanist;
   IEE, Advisor; (I-group) - "Child-like"

For our purposes, it is useful to consider further male and female types
separately.


Women's styles.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**"Caring" woman**, or "woman-mother". Inclined to care for her male partner. She is attracted to weak but intelligent men who accept her lead in daily activities. She likes to support, to protect, to cheer them up. These character traits that in the public opinion don't evoke respect for men, this woman forgives or finds them perfectly acceptable.

**"Aggressive" woman.** Often tries to compete with men, including in erotic relations. Inclined to irony, ridicule, making jokes at the opposite sex. Likes to feel herself more competent than a man in any endeavor. During lovemaking she expects from a man deferential treatment, demonstrative weakness, emotional instability.

**"Victim" woman.** The ideal of this woman is a physically strong man, reminiscent of lead roles in action movies. She wishes to experience his force on herself, to resist his pressure, to feel herself a victim. In love games, she prefers different forms of opposition and confrontation, that fuel the passions of her partner. Women of this type sometimes have inherent masochistic traits, though not all of them consciously acknowledge it.

**"Childlike" woman**, or "woman-daughter". The ideal of this woman is a kind, experienced, well-adapted to life man, who is usually older than her in age. In the presence of such a man she feels herself alike a girl, who is dependent on him almost in everything. In love games she prefers psychological factors - sincere conversation, predisposing music, creation of conditions for relaxation. Above all, she values leniency and support, attention to her problems, and care.

Men's styles.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**"Caring" man** or man-father. Experienced, attentive to the inner world of a woman partner, who can positively predispose towards himself with protective courtship. In love games he very much appreciates feminine tenderness and vulnerability, and waits admiration of his life experiences and skills.

**"Aggressive" man**. This sociotype has an inclination to forceful possession of a woman. In love games loves to demonstrate a struggle. Can allow himself rudeness, sometimes causes women pain - both physical and moral. Expects a woman to yield to force.

**"Victim" man**. Idealizes a commanding woman. Adapts to her tastes, respects volitional qualities in her. In his behavior at times he emphasizes dependence and obedience, and other times comes out of control. In relationship with a woman he subconsciously awaits orders, catches, reprimands. Not receiving these kinds of reactions, he involuntarily provokes their manifestation.

**"Childlike" man** or man-son. Dependent, naive in worldly affairs, awaits from a woman practical and sincere support. Inadvertently emphasizes how he was passed by with attention and gone unnoticed, any of the wasted abilities and talents, and difficulties with adapting to life's struggles. In women he values experience and responsiveness to his problems.

Psychosexual compatibility.
---------------------------

**"Caring" woman** is rejecting of intense, but rough caresses. Erotic
games that are deprived of foreplay and based on force oppress her
sexuality, thus relations with strong forceful men are often
disappointing to her. The behavior of compatible man must be
"child-like" i.e. reluctant, waiting-enticing. This woman loves caresses
that are expressed as gentle, subtle touches of her erogenous zones.
Relationship with a "Victim" man is not satisfactory to her either,
because his caprices, tricks, and provocations of force from her
surprise and repel her. Relations with similar to her "Caring" man after
some time start to disappoint her, although she doesn't have much
against such a relationship. Sooner or later, she feels a lack of
spiritual connection in them.

**"Aggressive" woman** searches for an object for her assertive and
eager erotic actions. She is best matched by a man who behaves
obediently but capriciously with her. Then she obtains pretext for
aggression. "Victim" man idealizes such a woman, and at the same time he
somewhat fears her. His behavior can be compared with the behavior of a
page who is entirely devoted to the service of "beautiful lady".
On-going game - is the best cure for satiation. In relations with
"Childlike" man, "Aggressive" woman will feel a lack of playful
submission on his part. His unwillingness to adapt to her aggressive
attacks cannot not put such a union on the brink of a break-up.
Relations with similar to her "Aggressor" man on one hand flatter and
ignite her passion, but on the other hand repel, as they don't lead to
the desired victory. Therefore, they may have only mixed success.
"Caring" man unnerves her with his treatment of her as if she is a small
child, which she perceives as humiliating.

**"Victim" woman** cleverly plays on her weakness, vulnerability, or
disorganization, thus provoking "Aggressive" man to undertake prompt
decisive actions. In love games, the greatest value for her are strong
embraces and feeling the power of the male body, yielding to which she
shows her submission to his will. "Caring" men seem comfortable to her,
but too dull partners, while "Childlike" men in her heart she views as
not sufficiently strong and resolute. With similar to her "Victim" men
this woman enters into complex, full of subtext relations, competing
with them in sacrificial attitudes and demanding for it special
privileges. Frequently such games literally wear out and exhaust both of
them.

At this point, I consider it necessary to mention that these
psychoanalytic groups are not being considered in all detail, so some
more subtle differences within them disappear. In particular, among
"Victim" types the fact remains unnoticed that they can further be
divided into the "tragic victims" (IEI and EIE) and "comic victims" (ILI
and LIE).

**"Childlike" woman**. In erotic life, women of this type place much
significance on sophisticated tenderness and psychology of relations.
She, without any special for it intentions, demonstrates her fragility
and child-like naivete by her own actions. This woman easily takes up
interests and activities of a partner towards whom she is sympathetic.
In love games, "Childlike" woman easily picks up the initiative of
"Caring" man, demonstrating her own sophistication and imagination. She
does pay attention to "Aggressive" men, of course, but she fears
becoming close with them due to their instinctive behavior and their
roughness. "Victim" men satisfy her only in part: they start off
romantically, but then puzzle and confuse her by demonstrations of their
suffering and their unpredictability. With similar to her "Childlike"
men this woman will feel discomfort due to lack of attention and care
for her needs. In such a couple the degree of alienation will slowly
increase over time.

Peculiarities of talented people.
---------------------------------

In concluding essay psychoanalytical groups, I wish to draw your
attention to the fact that encountered significant age difference
between spouses is other than social (material and cash considerations)
and more clearly expressed psychoanalytical roots. I recall a well-known
fact that male artists (poets, artists, philosophers and so on. P.),
Especially the most talented ones, often choosing his girlfriend wife
and women much older than himself. Why?

Apparently, the work associated with the development of a strong
intuition functions - either I, or T. And this, as we know, belong to
groups "Childlike" and victimization sociotypes. This writes E. Berne
linking creativity in the forehead-century with the ego-state "child"
[2]. I- and T-sociotypes need the patronage of sensory sociotypes -
experienced and practical in life. Life experience comes with age, so
very creative intuitive chosen as a life partner of a mature man.
Examples. Goethe found a lover in the face of Charlotte von Stein, who
was seven years older than him. The German philosopher FV Schelling was
ten years younger than his lady Caroline Schlegel. Companion of Salvador
Dali became Russian Elena D. Dyakonov, who was born 20 years before him.

More normal is seen by the fact that mature men, senior business and
political organizations (as a rule, F- and S-types), marry very young
girlfriends, often their secretaries. For example, the head of the
Palestine Liberation Organization Yasser Arafat at 63 married a
29-year-old Suha taweel. Wife of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of
Germany Hans Dietrich Genscher became his secretary Barbara.

It may be objected: it is due to the desire of young ladies to the
material well-being. But this only proves that social patterns are
rooted in the typological caused individual tendencies. Mate is much
younger than themselves choose just very active and However, the rule is
not without exceptions, especially if we are dealing with the most
intimate human feeling, able to do any miracles.

Literature
----------

#. Augustinavichiute, A. *On Dual Nature of a Person.* 1983.
#. Berne E. *Games That People Play. Psychology of human relationships.*
   - SPb .: Lenizdat 1992.
#. Gulenko V. V., Meged V. V., Ovcharov A. A. *Diagnostic description of
   the individual options.* 32. - K. 1991.
#. Gulenko V. V. *Criteria of Reciprocity: Intertype relations as the
   interaction of temperaments and attitudes.* - Kiev, 15.07.1992 //
   SMiPL, 1996, number 2.
