LII Profile by Gulenko
=========================


    
General description
-------------------

The LII has a well developed ability for logical analysis and is capable
of clearly distinguishing the primary from the secondary. Creating
structures, classifications, concepts is in LII's style. Once he has
figured out the problem, he presents new solutions. He is objective and
impersonal, at times even harsh in his evaluations and in his
principles. If he is not satisfied with some guidelines or regulations,
he may simply ignore them.

Poorly orients in people's feelings and personal relationships. Stubborn
and inflexible with his relations to others. Obstinately tries to retain
the system of relations to which he has become accustomed. Reserved
about himself. Dislikes uninvited guests because he doesn't know how to
entertain and occupy them. Cautious in communication, often holds at a
certain distance. The more he sympathizes with a person internally, the
less outwardly demonstrative he is of his interest.

Tolerant of other points of view and different lifestyles. His behavior
is often confusing to others because he makes decisions on intuitive
basis  by guessing. Frequently, he has one main interest within which
he is constantly improving his knowledge and skill. Maintains a
conversation only when it is on subjects that are of interest to him.

At home LII is modest, often satisfied by a minimum of conveniences.
Daily chores have a suppressing and tiring effect on him. Despite his
stubbornness, qualities such as pushiness, being demanding and
domineering, are underdeveloped in the LII. He cannot subordinate people
to himself if only by means of reasoning with them. In critical
situations he may be somewhat indecisive. He can't be forced to do
anything by coercion.


Detailed description
--------------------

LII knows how to logically and convincingly express his thoughts. He
creates schemes and conceptualizations, distinctly separates the
important from the secondary. Once he develops a general idea of
schematic, he works on reifying it and bringing it closer to practice.
Pure theorizing, philosophizing, discussions that are completely removed
from the life are not for him. The correctness of the system he
evaluates by its internal logical consistency. Easily modifies the
formal framework of a system. Prefers compact information that has been
formulated as concisely as possible, although may expand it in volume if
necessary. LII is well aware of the potentialities and possibilities of
ideas, concepts, models, schemes and systems. Gives an objective,
impartial assessment of a their potential. Knows how to tie in details
and particulars to the whole.

Seeks to improve or enhance any theory or development. Persistently
fills the missing links of any system that is of interest to him.
Alternative ideas do not escape his attention. He is well capable of
generating ideas and proposals and brainstorming. Thinks very
independently. Once he understood a problem, he puts forward innovative
solutions. Ideas come to him intuitively  by guessing. Logic for him is
only a way of framing information that he obtains intuitively. He is
able to disentangle a confusing, ambiguous problem. Intuitively searches
for hidden relationships. Lack of evidence replaces with imagination.
Penetrates deeper and deeper into the object of study.

Not very sociable. He finds it difficult to build relationships with
people. Makes an effort to behave kindly and enter into close contact.
Hides his personal life from outsiders. Does not like uninvited guests,
doesn't know with what to occupy them. In communication very careful.
Contributes to the conversation only when it concerns matters that are
important to him. Treasures relationships that have been already
established. Stubbornly retains the system of relations to which he has
already become accustomed. He won't break established relationships, but
neither will he cling to relationships that have outlived themselves.
Indifferent to criticism from the outside. Not afraid of a negative
attitude directed towards him. With strangers and people who confuse him
becomes restrained, internally clams up  he doesn't know how to behave
himself around them.

LII assesses relationships between people by degree of their ease and
lack of constraint. Strives for simple, democratic relations. Heavy,
tense relationships take away his energy and make him passive. Most
often LII is a gentle and pleasant person, not pushy or domineering.
Balanced and self-sustained. Has an critical need for independence and
territorial autonomy. Poorly subordinates people to his will and defends
his everyday interests. In critical situations, may become indecisive
and sluggish. Although he will remain cool, he needs some advice on what
to do and how to act. May ignore abuse and pressuring. One cannot
achieve anything from him by coercive pressure.

Friendliness and positive emotions calm him down. With pleasure he
responds to them, becomes sociable and witty. Tries to bring joy for
people close to him. At close distance, becomes more positive, cheerful
and friendly. His optimism is transferred to people around him. If
emotions are negative, then he respond to them only if he considers them
valid and reasonable. Otherwise he distances and tries to extinguish
them by logical analysis. Expresses his own emotions only when he is at
close distance or feels that he is in a familiar environment. Otherwise
behaves in a cold and detached manner.

At home he is modest and agrees to be satisfied by a minimum of
facilities. However, effective care for his health and comfort lifts his
spirits and makes him optimistic. When his domestic and financial
problems are solved, his energy increases and he takes on resolving the
problems that have been postponed until better times. Strives to dress
harmoniously, without frills and artificial jewelery. However, he is not
quick to find his style. Feels uncomfortable if he is dressed
non-functionally, in a way that is not inappropriate for the situation.
When he experiences discomfort for a long time, it leads to accumulation
of negative emotions. Over time, his patience may burst; all that has
been simmering inside may spill over.

Good at estimating prospects of new undertakings and projects. Gives
advice on how to "fine tune" a new, unusual project, what should be
considered in order for it to be successful. However, LII himself is not
distinguished by entrepreneurial spirit. In business activity he
vacillates, thinks for a long time before he decides on something. Often
he is too cautious and inactive at first, then, all of a sudden, starts
taking risks hoping for luck. In concrete work, he is either too
meticulous and specifies everything to the last detail, or he's too much
in a hurry to finish it soon to start on the next job. Raw result
doesn't baffle him: if needed, he will come back and redo the steps. In
areas of ??interest to him, he asks questions on what do people
typically do, what technology is in use. Based on this information, he
decides how he should act himself. However, he quickly loses acquired
work skills.

Feels his dependence on the flow of time. To events and meetings usually
arrives on time; may even feel proud of his punctuality and
organization. Knows how to evaluate his capabilities accurately to
finish the planned work by the deadline. However, he usually delays in
the beginning and accelerates his working pace towards the end. Due to
this, the quality or volume of his work may suffer. Has greater chances
of having success if he starts on his assignments in a timely manner.
Looks for methods and tactics that can save him time. Hates it when time
is spent uselessly. Warns others if he is very busy and has much to do
that cannot be postponed. Feels that he is ruled over by fate about
which he cannot do anything. Quickly forgets past failures, but also
does not expect anything good in the future.


Manner of communication
-----------------------

| With unfamiliar people the LII behaves with some reserve and
  aloofness, and keeps a psychological distance. Usually he's not the
  first to take initiative in getting acquainted. His speech is very
  clear and logical. He presents material in a coherent way, showing
  tendency to stress important words with intonation. In the beginning
  gives a generalized or abstracted overview, then later moves to
  supporting concrete example. The reverse order is also possible:
  first, a number of actual examples, followed by a general conclusion.
  The logic of his speech, especially when defending any idea at the
  time of the dispute, can be rather rigid and categorical.*\* He cuts
  off unnecessary details, he's interested only in the general pattern.
  During a conversation or presentations shows emotionality, which was
  difficult to see in him before. His emotions acquire a strong,
  dramatic nature corresponding to the degree of his excitation. His
  eyes start flashing with a fanatical gleam. Nevertheless, he tries to
  behave himself in emphasized correct manner. Supports a conversation
  only when it is interesting to him. Doesn't voice his views on matters
  towards which he's indifferent, prefers to remain silent in such
  cases.
| [**Editor's note: This is more descriptive of Ti-LIIs than Ne-LIIs.
  The intuitive subtype usually shows a lot more flexibility and
  spontaneity, and less firmness and categoricalness in conversation, to
  the point of considering themselves to be ILE, IEI, IEE, and other
  irrational types.**]


Features of behavior
--------------------

Considerate of people, always gives a person an opportunity to speak. As
he believes that every person has some kind of abilities, he tries, at
least, not to interfere with a person developing them. Usually tolerant
of other points of view. Does not immediately reject any proposal, tries
to check it in practice first. In his behavior he's usually private:
does not readily share information about his affairs and his personal
matters. From a side it may even seem that he has no personal life.
Characterized by a very strong need for independence. He is satisfied
only by complete freedom. In business and work activities, this desire
for freedom is coupled with a sense of responsibility for him.
Undemanding, often indifferent to food and decorations. Being captivated
by his work may refuse dinner. At home he is modest and suffices with a
minimum of facilities. Often has some interest, engagement, or hobby
which he fanatically follows for a long period of time. At the same
time, he doesn't care what others say about him. Doesn't advertise or
draw attention to his position in life, lives by his own interests. Any
rules or orders that are unsatisfactory to him, he may simply ignore. To
most people the LII is not understandable, thus they keep some distance
from him.

Appearance
----------

LII's appearance has several characteristics that allow to identify a
person of this sociotype even at a distance. One characteristic trait is
ascetic face. Of asceticism we can talk for two reasons. First, the very
structure of the face often resembles medieval profiles by their
angularity, a combination of large parts of the face (usually nose) with
a small (usually chin), as well as jaw and brow lines. Second, the
expression on his face at a distance is always perceived as completely
unemotional, even grim and gloomy. The complexion is usually pale and
bloodless. Men of this type gravitate to short haircuts. The figure of
LII in most cases is thin. One characteristic feature that allows you to
confidently assume that a person belongs to this sociotype - is a figure
bent backwards, with a somewhat protruding belly. LII's gait is
uncertain, somewhat wagging. Sometimes it even seems that he doesn't
know where to go. In moments of excitement he may jolt from side to
side, as if paving the way in space by sense of touch. LII (men) dress
undemonstratively, not wanting to attract undue attention to themselves.
However, the LII is characterized by oscillation and variations in the
way that he dresses. Sometimes he goes from one extreme to another:
first dresses fashionably, then come dressed in "shabby" clothes. The
style of clothes of women of this type can be called "French" - within
it one can see traces of emphasized originality, nonstandardness, a wish
to stand out.


As a subordinate
----------------

| **Strengths**
| Has highly developed logic and excels in analytical thinking. Knows
  how to identify the main parts in material he's working with. Likes to
  generalize facts. Well versed in the schemes, classifications and
  structures. Realistically estimates the practical prospects of any
  project, but also does not lose sight of alternatives. Supporter of
  discipline and order based not on the administrative pressure, but on
  sense of duty, conscience, and personal responsibility. By nature he
  is kind, but puts objective factors above personal interests and
  relationships. Person of his word, values equity and reasonable
  organization. A good speaker, able to communicate clearly and
  concisely convey the material to the audience. Seeks independence, but
  allows himself to be directed by people who can persuade gently but
  firmly. Has a good sense of time, usually arrives in time to events
  and meetings. Cautious, senses danger. Rarely loses his temper.
  Democratic and tolerant of different points of view.

| **Problem areas**
| Insufficiently flexible in relations. Talks of what is of interest to
  him and ignores extraneous details in conversation with a partner. If
  the topic is not interesting for him, tries to avoid having a
  conversation because he doesn't want to waste time. Doesn't like doing
  many things at once, especially in a hurry. Can be stubborn and
  uncompromising. Doesn't tolerate being ordered around, coldly rejects
  volitional pressuring. Reserved and secretive, does not like to talk
  about his personal life. Poorly tolerates when his freedom is
  restricted or unreasonable demands are imposed on him.

From him one cannot demand and expect:

-  much practicality and mobility;
-  sensitivity, adjustment to the other party in conversation;
-  quality in routine work that is uninteresting for LII;
-  sociability and communicativeness;
-  exacting, pushy qualities.

Recommended occupations: Research and analytical work, analysis of
complex phenomena and objects. Development of new ideas for practical
application. "Analyst" work well everywhere where there is demand for
system analysis, for creation and development of classification schemes
and forwarding of alternative concepts. In the U.S. this type of work is
called "business reorganizer".


As a supervisor
---------------

The representative of this sociotype demonstrates calmness, balance,
measured judgments, and little emotiveness in communication. Usually
abides by the norms of correct behavior. He is often reticent and
withdrawn, has few friends, prefers to live by his own interests and
rules. For this reason, he is commonly perceived as detached from
everyday problems.

Supervisor-objectivist A person who puts claim to be objective and
strives to maximally abstract from his emotional experiences, to always
find objective reasons for his actions and activities, to see the main
parts and the core line in the development of events, to present their
vision of the problems within the system. All these are the essential
features of the supervisor-objectivist.

"Analytic" aims for a comprehensive view of any subject or object. In
his opinion, this is the only way to obtain an objective picture of the
situation. The outcome of these reflections are answers to the questions
"why", "for what?" "what for?". LII deconstructs an object or problem
into its component parts and explains its mechanism of action. Once he
has developed an approach, he is capable of understanding the most
complex problems.

His does not enforce or impose his opinion, nor use his position and
status. Instead he relies on method of persuasion, which is based on
providing clear, logical statements designed to justify the necessity
and fairness of a decision or some position. He makes it clear that his
assessment is objective. He will change his mind only if he is offered a
better reasoned position. Becomes uncompromising only in cases when it
comes to issues that are objectively fundamental, or matters of
scientific and social truth. In small matters he is usually yielding.
Some of his co-workers and subordinates can take advantage of this.
However, if they do so without sense of measure, the
supervisor-objectivist is capable of severe administrative penalties,
including dismissal. In such cases, he either mentions the possible
consequences or takes drastic steps.

Able to reach out to people to generate interest in himself and his
ideas. Often makes for a good mentor and teacher. He encourages even
small initiatives, listens to all points of view, and makes it possible
for person's potential to unfold. Has a good intuitive sense for his
audience, perceptive of reactions to his words. If needed, he can
readjust and veer the discussion into an unexpected direction. The
larger the audience - the more confident he feels. Experiences
difficulties communicating with someone who is not perceptive of
alternatives and possibilities, whose thinking is too grounded. Does not
join in discussions on topics that are of no interest to him. Does not
support useless, in his opinion, debate and communication.

Main characteristics:

-  Can adequately fill the role of frontal leader.
-  In establishing business contacts he orients by objective criteria
   and evaluates the potential of his partner from this point of view.
-  Business activity is characterized by prudence and far-sightedness as
   well as careful analysis of his own abilities.
-  Interaction with employees is based on a collective basis.
-  Collaborating type of behavior with elements of compromise.
-  Achieves great results by taking into account the objective
   possibilities. Cannot impact people emotionally.
-  Motives - profit, cannot work according to the laws that protect the
   bureaucratic order and the hierarchy of authority. Strategy: complete
   freedom of management, consistent with objective necessity. Cannot
   serve as a leader in addressing ethical issues.


Working conditions
------------------

For the "Analyst" the optimal regime is calm work, where he can ponder
over logical questions. The work should be of interest to him and
provide him with an opportunity to satisfy his curiosity and thirst for
knowledge. It is better for him to work independently from others, by
his own "rhythm". Status, desire to win and to succeed, building of a
career are often of secondary value for the LII. He can be inspired to
work by emotional appeals that his participation is absolutely
necessary. Explain to him that a good deal of work has already been
done, but without him the project could come to a standstill. The
"Analyst" himself cares little about the amenities and convenience at
his workplace and at home, but comfort and plentiful supplies will
nevertheless increases his performance and his mood. Thus, if you
resolve for him all the problems that deal with material arrangements
and supply, he will be very grateful to you. He also don't feel
comfortable making demands for himself and may pay little attention to
his own well-being. This person can be smart, progressive, an expert in
his field, but quite unassertive. If you from time to time take care
over such issues (and he is in great need of this!), he will be grateful
to you.


Recommendations for self-improvement
------------------------------------

Your strengths are an analytical bent of mind, an aptitude for
structural thinking, and the ability to see the general laws behind any
phenomena or events. You are oriented at objectivity and fairness in
your assessments. In providing evaluating for people you pay attention
to their contribution to the common cause rather than personal
sympathies. In any task or project that you take up, you always
distinguish the main parts and discard any unnecessary and irrelevant
details. You also know how to convey anything in a strictly logical
manner and get the basic idea across to the audience.

After analyzing an idea and evaluating its importance and prospects, you
become a strong supporter of it. Your creative intuition nourishes it,
continually feeding it with new outbreaks of perceptions and insights.

You are endowed with the ability to treat other individuals with care.
You are able to take note of a person in action, then help him reveal
uncover his abilities and instill self-confidence.

The main problem in your life is your inability to actively defend your
interests, little confidence in yourself and in your ability to handle
concrete affairs of life. You are characterized by indecision. You do
not have an instant reaction to changing situations. Lack of
operativeness, effectuality and low dynamicity can hurt you. Try to be
more bold and energetic in asserting your rights if you believe in their
validity.

Take up those forms of sport that encourage decisiveness and speed of
reaction - tennis, skiing, motoring, boxing. Be sure to alternate mental
work with physical work. Take up exercises that improve your ability to
concentrate your attention, as well as activities that develop this
quality, such as fishing.

You are in need of moral support in your endeavors. Try to associate
with people who are determined and optimistic, who would from time to
time encourage and help you to overcome your pessimism and lack of faith
in yourself.

Your other problem - difficulties in communicating with people, setting
of large psychological distances, which is perceived by others as
dryness, harshness, and alienation. Sometimes you knowingly doom
yourself to loneliness. Try not to be gloomy and morose. Smile and be
kind more often, but don't go too far with this because you'll find it
difficult to turn down people. Carefully select a circle of contacts
that are necessary for you to avoid unnecessary strain and ethical
issues. Try to not lose well-established emotional ties. Remember that
you can help many people by your good judgment and deep understanding.
Keep in mind that not everyone is just as adept at analyzing events and
ignoring emotion as you are.

Try to cultivate in yourself a sense of norms of social interaction and
practice them every day. Be more considerate of the interests of others.
Try to go deeper into the problems of other people if you want them to
work with you. Remember that a person feel offended by a superficial,
careless attitude.
