LII subtypes
===================

Logical subtype Ti-INTj (Ti-LII)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The logical subtype is usually calm, serious and self-contained. Often
quite categorical and uncompromising in his judgments, not leaving any
room for appeals. When the topic of conversation does not interest him,
he is silent and austere, looks at his partners with gravity. If someone
behaves disdainfully, he can put them in their place. Able to clearly
and laconically, without superfluous emotions, explain his thoughts.
Does not like lengthy discussions and discourse. Spend lots of time
thinking and reflecting: analyzing and comparing various phenomena,
figures and facts. Makes an impression of a strong-willed person. His
lips are often densely compressed, speech precise and abrupt, voice
lacks in varying intonations. Balanced, even, correct, unemotional.
However, his otherwise frozen facial expression sometimes reflects his
internal emotions in unexpected and impulsive movements of muscles.

**Character**

He has well-developed analytic thinking abilities of a logical
inclination and is well-versed in systems, schemes, classifications and
structures. Identifies the main components and cuts off anything that is
of secondary nature. Likes to generalize particulars and discrete facts.
Distrustful of new ideas until he can check them for himself; thereupon,
he can become their staunch supporter and proponent. Realistic about
evaluating the prospects, potential, and opportunities of any project.
Puts business above personal interests and relationships. In the
interests of his work can ignore his convenience and comfort. Very
appreciative of fairness and reasonable order.

Usually he is polite, proper, and serious. Very straightforward in his
behavior, lacks in flexibility and diplomacy in his relations. Fairly
stable in his feelings and affections. Does not like uninvited guests
and unexpected phone calls. Unlikely to take initiative with unfamiliar
people. As a rule, has few friends, limiting his social circle to work
colleagues and a few like-minded associates. Poorly versed in how other
people relate to him and is thus quite restrained in communication.
Hides his impressionability under the mask of austerity. Does not seek
to win over the sympathies of others. Prefers to talk about topics that
interest him, and ignores or omits anything extraneous. If the topic is
of no interest to him, he tries to avoid the conversation to not waste
his time. He doesn't like compliments, imposing and annoying advice, or
too much attention directed at his person, but deep inside he is in need
of a positive evaluation of his activities.

Purposeful; persistently and stubbornly strives for implementation of
the set objectives. Inclined to present himself with increased demands.
Hard-working and meticulous when carrying out his work. Can make himself
do a job that is uninteresting but required. Dislikes doing several
things at once, especially in a hurry. This is a person of his word.
Proponent of discipline and order backed up by administrative means
rather than by conscience and sense of personal responsibility. He
believes that if a person has made a choice, then he or she is fully
accountable for this decision. Dislikes having to defend his interests,
but if needed he can stand up for himself, showing stubbornness and
uncompromising attitude. Poorly tolerates being ordered around. Coolly
responds to any external strong-willed pressuring. To sharp criticisms
may respond in kind; If necessary, can deliver a reproof. Himself
resorts to coercion very rarely, only when other measures fail.

Knows how to plan his activities so as to avoid unnecessary congestion.
Prefers to lead a calm, measured style of life. Tries to watch his
health as key to good performance. Can do with a minimum of things, does
not seek comfort, and dislikes excess. Attentive to his close ones, but
reluctantly takes care of domestic problems. He would rather devote most
of his time to work and hobbies.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Concrete and structured, distrusts too far-flung ideas. He is an
organizer in research. Erudite, but only within his narrow area of
competence. An adherent of reasonable systems. In behavior he is dry,
restrained, can be authoritarian. Does not love discussions and
frictions in a group. Holds himself at a large psychological distance.
Wears clothing that is strict, tries to be in good physical shape.



Intuitive subtype Ne-INTj (Ne-LII)
----------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The intuitive subtype appears soft even a bit diffident in
communication. In conversation, he is restrained, attentive, attempts to
come into good favor of his partner by giving advice and impressing him
or her with his knowledge and conclusions. In such cases, his serious
demeanor and gaze soften, goodwill permeates his voice. Not always
absolute and categorical in his statements, but obstinate and
uncompromising in his actions. May keep silent and refrain from the
discussion, but won't change his opinion. His usually imperceptible
emotions become visible during moments of extreme nervous pressure
within intonations of his voice and impulsive gestures. Gait is calm and
synchronous. Pose appears a bit restrained, especially in the shoulders
which may be stooped. His movements are somewhat unsure and dilatory.
Gestures are stingy and constrained, occasionally unconsciously
impulsive and poorly coordinated.

**Character**

Likes to analyze various phenomena and processes. Inclined towards
anything that is new and unusual, especially if it falls into the sphere
of his interests. Often has a rich imagination and tries to introduce
elements of creativity into his work. Has a good feel for the prospects
of new ideas and initiatives. Willingly develops and works out new ideas
for practical application. Able to analyze specific topics in great
depth, but also shows an interest in the adjacent fields. Stable in his
work performance, but quickly grows tired of routine and is in need of
fresh impressions and changes.

Excitable in disputes; can inspire others with some idea. Becomes
uncompromising in debates when his principles are concerned, but tries
to develop in himself tolerance for other people's weaknesses and for
differing points of view. Usually knows how to hear out his conversation
partner and to encourage his initiative in useful direction. Evaluates
abilities of others and finds them a proper application. May be a good
speaker and lecturer capable of briefly and clearly conveying the
material to his listeners.

Reserved, amiable to an extent, polite, and even-tempered, but rarely
becomes very close with anyone, for he easily tires of social
interaction. If he is interested in a person, he is able to come into
his or her good favor by establishing intellectual contact and
intriguing with ideas and new suggestions. Quite private, does not like
discussing his personal life and does not allow his feelings to take
precedence over the interests of business or personal principles.
Although in relation with others he is reserved and distrustful, he is
inclined to reciprocate the feelings of another person and show
attention to his or her problems. Seeks support in active, lively, and
strong-spirited people, who know how to encourage and provide help in
business matters. Needs an emotional, optimistically oriented partner
who would know how to raise his vitality. But at the slightest
infringement of his independence, he retreats into himself, stubbornly
defending his principles up to a break up of relations. Allows himself
to get directed only by those who can persuade gently and not too
aggressively.

Enemy of the administrative pressuring and control; considers it
obstructive to the development of a person's potential. Convinced that
the main thing in work is not sense of duty but interest in the project.
Strives for independence. However, at the same time he is usually
disciplined, punctual, and conscientious. Makes up his plans himself and
follows them exactly. Usually does not run late to events but makes it
in the allotted time.

Sometimes he is too categorical in his judgments and intolerant of
different points of view. He will not dramatically change his beliefs,
conclusions, habits and orientations under the influence of new facts
and circumstances. He reviews and changes his former views with much
difficulty and sometimes exhibits senseless obstinacy. Due to high
self-esteem and a developed sense of dignity, it can be difficult for
him to admit to being wrong. All of this does not make him the easiest
partner to deal with and creates plenty of interpersonal problems in his
life. Internally, he may acutely experience his disappointments, but
tries to avoid quarrels out of fear of losing control and losing respect
of others. Skeptical and distrustful, but does not show this. Restrained
in the expression of his feelings, but when he is in a good mood can
liven up the conversation with his humor.

Yielding and compliant in matters of everyday life. If he cannot
completely avoid household chores and other mundane tasks, he will try
to postpone them. Dislikes bureaucracy, having to petition various
departments and to prepare documents. Shows inertness in such matters
even if he sees that his project is suffering. Tries to rely on the help
of others in such cases. Does not always take care of his health, but
understands its importance. In treatment of illness lacks in consistency
and follow-through. Tries to keep up with latest tastes and prevailing
styles, to have a presentable appearance.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Analyst, good researcher and conceptualizer. Gives his attention to
problems of general nature. Generator of options and ideas. Places more
importance on future potential achievements rather than results of the
current moment. Smooth, polite, careful in social interaction. Outwardly
often seems asthenic, pays attention to his outward appearance and to
his health.



Additional Links
----------------

-  `Discussion of LII (INTj)
   subtypes <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/23058-Discussion-of-LII-INTj-subtypes>`_
-  :doc:`Contact and Inert Subtypes by Meged and Ovcharov <contact_inert_subtypes>`
-  :doc:`Subtyping systems and related articles <subtype>`
-  :doc:`Romantic and Sexual Behavior of Quadras and Subtypes <romantic_quadra>`
