LSE subtypes
===================

Logical subtype Te-ESTj (Te-LSE)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The logical subtype seems impersonal, business-like, dry and correct in
interaction. May look strict and unapproachable. Not inclined to make
jokes, has a serious and constrained demeanor about him. Usually is not
very talkative, but if his temper runs hot it's difficult to stop him.
Direct and linear in behavior and conversation. Can be sharp and
categorical in his judgments, due to which accumulates many problems of
ethical nature. At another end of extreme, he may not say anything, but
later build up grudges and hard feelings, and avoid interaction.
Uncompromising and stubborn. Sometimes tries to predispose his
conversation partner towards him by intimate tones in conversation. Does
this if he himself is predisposed towards greater intimacy, or if he
needs some kind of information or service. Mistrustful, secretive and
suspicious. Dislikes talking about feelings. Prefers to engage himself
in something useful, and to bring everything he undertakes to its
completion. Constantly tense, finds it difficult to relax and discharge.
He is predisposed towards sudden flashes of anger. Seems restrained in
his movements.

**Character**

A realist, who possesses clear logical thinking: he is able to assess
any situation soberly and quickly. Enjoys order in everything. Easily
makes his way through instructions and laws. Respects people who are
competent, and himself strives to keep informed about everything. Relays
information in form of concise, clear expressions, and demands the same
clear and concrete answers from other people. Very pragmatic, evaluates
actions of people not only in terms of their honesty and integrity, but
also of expediency.

Has good management and organizational talents, but lacks in diplomacy
and tact in relationships. Stubborn and inflexible, straightforward and
artless, blunt and categorical in his statements. Because of this, he
has a lot of ethical issues with other people, and few friends. Usually,
he is certain of his own correctness and likes it when others listen to
his advice. Finds it difficult to admit his own mistakes and go for
concessions and compromises, even if this undermines his relationship
with other people.

Capable of clearly assigning responsibilities and strictly and
persistently checking upon their implementation. Doesn't go easy on
anyone, shows a principled and intransigent attitude in this matter.
Does not act on behalf of feelings, both his own and those of others.
Constantly monitors the discipline and order. Due to his wish to
accomplish more, he is not sufficiently attentive to convenience in the
workplace. Negatively judges the lazy and the fantasists, dislikes
tricksters and cheats. He is distinguished by a strong sense of duty and
an extraordinary capacity for work. Very courageous and hardy. Dislikes
talking about health, considering this to be pusillanimity and weakness.

Very punctual. Values time and does not like to waste it in vain. Tries
to predict the outcome of a proposed project or course of action.
Doesn't trust new ideas, prefers to not take risks in vain. Quite
conservative in his tastes and habits. If his work is criticized by
incompetent people, he can lose his temper and flare up. Doesn't
tolerate when he is being hurried or distracted from work. Sometimes,
striving for top quality in his work, and getting bogged down by
details, he does not finish his job on time. Gets very upset over this,
so tries to plan things in advance.

A good financier, who can rationally handle money. Economic,
calculating, and prudent. He likes working with numbers and factual
concrete information. Gravitates towards such areas of activity as
statistics and planning. Loves stability, reliability, and thoroughness
in everything. Prefers quality and practical use of things to their
aesthetics and fashion. A good manager of his own household. Quick and
adept in domestic matters.

Secretive, doesn't discuss his personal affairs with anyone. By nature
sensitive and vulnerable, but prefers experience his grievances in
silence. However, under certain moods he prefers to express all that has
accumulated. Believes in honest relationships, but poorly understands
the feelings of others, thus he is suspicious and cautious in the
emotional sphere, and afraid of making mistakes. Avoids voicing
compliments and praising others for good work. In his soul, he is
sentimental, but tries to hide it. Finds it difficult to express his
feelings. Considers excess emotions to be tedious and dislikes flattery.
He believes that praises spoil people. His own attitudes he shows not in
words but in actions and deeds. With outsiders he is restrained and
polite, but with people who are close to him he is demanding and shows
authoritativeness. A supporter of a strict upbringing.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A good worker. Does not tolerate incompetence. Well erudite in his area
of work or study. Very operational, sometimes over-works and wears
himself out. Considers that only in this case he can also demand more
from others. Can be sharp in his judgments. Usually formulates the task
very clearly and directly. In the sphere of production, he demands high
quality and responsibility for the product, likes to admire what has
been made, emphasizes the advantage of his goods. Realizes himself well
in conditions of a stable market - in logistics, in the army. Tries to
unite in his own hands the whole cycle of production. In clothing he is
conservative, his priorities are cleanliness, order and functionality.



Sensory subtype Si-ESTj (Si-LSE)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The sensory subtype is characterized by stability and high capacity for
work. Usually energetic, he cannot sit without some task or activity,
and waste his time in vain. Interested in new technologies within his
field of occupation or study, knows how to adapt them to his needs.
Impulsive, perseverant, and pushy, knows how to passionately persuade
his partner. Demanding and strict, but sometimes gives in to
persuasions. Has a sense of humor. His speech is gusty and emotional.
Often, one can see a predisposing although a bit strained smile on his
face. Sometimes he makes attempts to shorten the personal distance by
welcoming, friendly gestures - hugs, pats, light touches of his
conversation partner. Holds himself uninhibitedly, relaxed and at ease.
Constructive and energetic in participating in a discussion, makes
jokes. Gourmand and aesthete. Likes expensive, high quality, beautiful
things and dishes. Knows how to remove strain, sitting at the table with
his friends. But does not allow himself to remain inactive and at rest
for long. Usually has somewhat round body shape, inclined towards
corpulence. His movements are gusty, abrupt, fast and impulsive. He is
quite restless.

**Character**

Energetically fights for the quality of done work. Constantly improves
his own level of qualification, becoming a good specialist in his field.
With interest listens to a variety of rationalization proposals, not
averse to test them in practice, although he's more trusting of proven
methods and technology. Ensures that the necessary instructions and
conditions of work are followed and maintained. Likes to do much with
his hands. Inventive and resourceful in practical matters.

Bold, decisive, operative and assertive. Possesses willpower and likes
to work hard. Enthusiastically takes up implementation of his projects.
Defends his interests with tenacity and passion, disregarding any
authorities. A good organizer, for the people around him he can create
the conditions for accurate, concerted work. Quickly orients in any
situation, indispensable in extreme situations. Able to accurately make
the right choice and can mobilize all others for carrying out the needed
tasks.

Excitable and addictive personality. With his optimism tries to cheer up
others, to activate and mobilize them for doing something. In the
interest of his work or business knows how to manifest diplomatic skill:
positively predisposes others with amiability, courteousness, wit and
personal warmth. For achieving a goal, shows all different shades of
emotion, up to aggression, but if he sees that others are not afraid of
him, becomes polite and considerate.

Cannot stand uncertainty. Prolonged waits for some event weight him
down. By nature he is impatient: dislikes delaying and postponing
realization of undertaken decisions. Takes up assignments and tasks
immediately, but if something goes wrong, may put it aside for a while,
then come back to finish it. Emotional and gusty. Due to this, may show
impulsiveness and recklessness in his actions and statements. Remembers
his past mistakes and is not ashamed to talk about them. In any
situation, does not lose his heart and spirit.

Aesthete: values beauty in any of its manifestations. Creates comfort
and beautifully arranges his home. Dress with a sense of taste, although
a bit strictly. Handles his personal belongings with great care, and
loves it when things get put in their places. Polite and somewhat
prudish in communication, although sometimes his sense of tact fails
him. Adheres to established rules of interpersonal conduct, and requires
the same from others. Strives for harmony in relationships with others.
Feels unsettled and upset when he runs into differences in views and
approaches to problem solving. He is much in need of approval of his
actions and personal qualities. Impressionable and vulnerable. Poorly
receives criticism, even if it's delivered in soft or joking manner.

Doesn't take his capabilities fully into account and often overloads
himself with work, tiring and stressing himself out. Weighted down by
routine. Seeks communication with new people and gravitates towards new
impressions. Thus, periodically arranges holidays for himself, goes to
visit his friends, or invites others to his home.

Attaches importance to beautiful decoration of a holiday table: high
quality dishes silverware, with candles, music, and so on. Likes to have
fun and to enjoy himself. Has a sense of humor. Enjoys being the center
of attention. Tries to lift everyone's mood.

Strives towards making accurate assessments of the abilities and
capabilities of other people, but this is given to him with difficulty,
thus he often arrives at the wrong conclusions. Feels upset if he
unjustly offends and undervalues another person. Sensitive and
responsive to the misfortunes of others. Tends to take care of those who
need his help. Tries to do something pleasant for his loved ones in form
of surprises and gifts.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The sensory subtype seems more relaxed, uninhibited, and flexible than
the logical subtype. Usually sociable, emotional, and strives to make
contact with other people. Hospitable, likes comfort, convenience, and
coziness, leisure trips out to nature. Easily fulfills the roles of a
technical director, manager, or distributor. Has a good sense for
intermediate steps of development and production, trade and management.



Additional Links
----------------

-  `Discussion of LSE (ESTj)
   subtypes <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/7546-LSE-ESTj-Subtype-Discussion-and-Examples>`_
-  :doc:`Contact and Inert Subtypes by Meged and Ovcharov <contact_inert_subtypes>`
-  :doc:`Subtyping systems and related articles <subtype>`
-  :doc:`Romantic and Sexual Behavior of Quadras and Subtypes <romantic_quadra>`
