LSI subtypes
==================

Logical subtype Ti-ISTj (Ti-LSI)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The logical subtype is self-assured, calm, restrained, correct and
impenetrable. At times he may seem arrogant. Sufficiently kind,
imperturbable, and unemotional. Very polite and attentive to details in
conversation, likes to specify and clarify everything, but sometimes
becomes too focused on details that are nonessential to others.
Unhurried, perhaps even slow. Likes receiving exhaustively comprehensive
and thorough information to his inquiries. Dislikes ambiguity.
Internally, he is quite collected. Never loses his spirit and sense of
perseverance. Tries to encourage those who are in need of support. Has a
direct, motionless gaze that seems to look right through and not at his
conversation partner. His movements are measured but constrained; there
is a tendency to shuffle his feet against the floor when walking. When
he turns, he does so with his entire body such that it sometimes seems
like his neck is fixed to his shoulders; doesn't like to turn his head.

**Character**

A sober realist who knows how to find a way out of difficult situations.
Stoic: overcomes difficulties without complaining. Dislikes running too
much ahead and is able to patiently wait for the outcome. It is
difficult to convince him to change his stances. He is uncompromising in
matters that he considers to be important. Prefers to prepare for
everything in advance since he doesn't like improvising; feels
uncomfortable with change and instability. Somewhat contradictory and
given to internal doubts, but ultimately does not let his internal
vacillations undermine his main orientations. Knows how to consistently
and persistently overcome all obstacles. Prefers to implement his
knowledge into practice. Tries to stabilize any situation. Bravely
endures through misfortunes and adversity while not losing his heart and
spirit.

Lacks sufficient flexibility in dealing with people and is poor at
taking their individual abilities into account. Does not trust those who
are light-headed and light-hearted because he is not sure of whether
their feelings are trustworthy. Tolerant of defects of those who are
close to him; serves as a reliable support for them. Quickly grows tired
of interacting with people; quite tolerant of solitude. Restrained and
unobtrusive. The objective matters for him are more important than
personal relationships and feelings. Usually a private person who does
not readily share his experiences with outsiders. Doesn't demonstrate
what he is feeling: hunger, fear, pain, etc. Tries not to burden others
with himself; relies on the help of close people only in extreme cases.

He loves precision and concreteness in everything. Consistent and
thorough in his activities and decisions. Careful and thorough in
carrying out his tasks. Intolerant of slackness and irresponsibility
from others. Follows through his assignments to their completion. Trusts
only in official sources of information. A good researcher of narrow
issues. Delves into all the details without dismissing and losing sight
of anything minor. Accurately maintains records, likes to clarify facts,
readily informs those who turn to him for advice about any regulations,
about which he is usually informed. In an administrative position, he
can establish a clear work regimen, discipline, and order. As a manger,
he most often adheres to a chain of command. Very operative and
conscientious, possesses a sense of duty. Demanding of himself and
others. Tries to be even and reasonable, not go to extremes or fall into
illusions.

Modest and unpretentious in his household. Tends to be conservative in
his views and habits. If he finds his work interesting and
inspirational, may give it his preference while neglecting his personal
needs, may see the main purpose of his life in his work. Attentive and
friendly companion who knows how to patiently listen and give useful
advice.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The most rational logical type of all. Very constructive. Strives
towards organizational hierarchy, can excessively organize everyone else
around him. Himself is meticulous with his work and brings everything to
its completion. Does not miss any details. Poorly tolerates chaos and
confusion. Shows little dynamicity, is somewhat monotonous in his life.
Outwardly seems strict, unfazed, composed and restrained. In work
situations he is official even with those who are close to him, and even
manifests barrack style of behavior. Conservative in clothing, his
clothes are often strict, in dark tones, and resemble a uniform.



Sensory subtype Se-ISTj (Se-LSI)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The sensory subtype appears more restless in behavior and internally
emotional than the logical subtype. May seem somewhat restrained yet
also obstinate and stubborn in his views, willing to enter conflicts
when his opinions are not honored. Self-controlled and impersonal in his
demeanor. Dislikes objections and lengthy explanations. Often watches
the actions of others in order to try to assist them or to point out
their mistakes. Sometimes in indignation he makes reprimanding remarks,
other times he simply completes the task himself or tries to help
another person do it better. Flaring up, he can become unduly sharp and
absolutist in his statements. Occasionally he tries to amend the
situation and smiles with kindness and charm. He walks at a rapid pace,
placing his feet as if he is "stamping" the ground. Makes an impression
of a well-coordinated and active person. Dresses conservatively, but
aims for an aesthetically pleasant, even stylish, appearance. In
conversation, he attempts to get closer to his partner but doesn't make
direct contact. Not inclined to overly sensitive, affectionate, and
permissive treatment.

**Character**

He is persistent in achieving his goals. Orients quickly in extreme
situations, displaying considerable willpower, endurance, and practical
resourcefulness. Able to protect the interests of his project or
business with energy and obstinacy in various situations. Usually
confident in his opinions, which he bases on facts and his experience.
Sometimes manifests excessive obstinacy and intractability. Dislikes
being objected to or when someone else tries to impose their will or
working methods on him. Inquisitive, accumulates useful information.
Often has interests in areas of morality, art, and legislation. Refers
to novel and differing points of view with distrust and suspicion, since
it is quite difficult for him to change his positions and way of
thinking.

Can apply pressure on his subordinates if he is in a leadership
position, forcing them to work conscientiously; inclined to "tighten the
screws" giving instructions in imperative intonation; will check if his
orders have been carried out. If his arguments are not taken under
consideration, may flare up and try to force others to do everything as
it should be done. Internally disapproves of violations of established
regulations. Assesses and judges work by the difficulties and challenges
that were overcome during its implementation. Applies the same
requirements to everyone without taking individual abilities and
circumstances into account.

From time to time needs an emotional discharge to alleviate his inner
tensions. In such cases does not hide his emotions and waits for
reciprocal sincerity from his partner. Finds it difficult to attain
inner balance. At times he loses his restraint and with an outburst can
undermine previously established relationships. He is not always able to
maintain stable and friendly relations with other people due to his
intransigence and straightforwardness of his views and opinions. Despite
this, he is usually quite hardy and enduring, both on emotional and
physical level.

Rarely talks about his own feelings and personal affairs; and if he
does, he speaks about such subjects to very few people. Does not delve
deeply into the personal lives of other people, except may be out of
politeness. Considers it his duty to help other people in difficult
moments; in such cases he shows attentiveness and sympathy and tries to
provide the necessary service. Poorly discerns how other people relate
to him; due to this it is inclined to doubt their sincerity, or,
conversely, can mistake his own desire to be loved for actual love.
Prone to harboring ill-founded suspicions.

Hardworking, takes on many tasks and chores thinking that he can do them
better than others. Dedicated to taking care of his loved ones and does
so selflessly feeling responsible for their well-being. Tries to provide
everything that is needed for his household. Watches for cleanliness and
order; strives for aesthetics in appearance and his everyday life.
Inclined to create comfort, but dislikes excesses. Feels irritated when
others touch his things or do something without his permission.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Gusty and impulsive. Doesn't always follow the same order and
organization that he requires of others, meanwhile criticizing those who
disrupt this order. Seems courteous and communicable at a distance, but
in closer quarters can prove to be intolerant. If provoked, can respond
by aggression. Strives towards leadership, but is best at managing
smaller groups. Outwardly appears strong. Male representatives often
have facial hair and prefer a free style in their clothing.



Additional Links
----------------

-  `Discussion of LSI (ISTj)
   subtypes <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/4440-Discussion-of-LSI-ISTj-Subtypes>`_
-  :doc:`Contact and Inert Subtypes by Meged and Ovcharov <contact_inert_subtypes>`
-  :doc:`Subtyping systems and related articles <subtype>`
-  :doc:`Romantic and Sexual Behavior of Quadras and Subtypes <romantic_quadra>`
