LSI Profile by Gulenko
=============================


    
General description
-------------------

Is distinguished by thoroughness, precision, and concreteness in
professional matters. Carefully plans events, thoroughly examines and
works out all the specifics. Puts work matters above sentiments. Takes
all regulations into account. Keeps his personal things in order. He can
always be relied on. Stoically endures life's hardships.

LSI is a person of strong will, diligent and enduring. He/she is
insistent and demanding in execution and verification of tasks. Takes
care of those who are confused and uncertain, explains to them how they
can do their work. In his assessments - a sober realist, who does not
tolerate infertile, unrealistic fantasies. Proves his point and supports
his case citing numerous facts that he has collected.

In communication with friends and colleagues, he is polite and
courteous. Can make an impression of an intelligent and well-mannered
man. However, in closer, more familiar relations, he can be rather
insensitive. Despite the fact that he is quite communicative in a small
groups, periodically he needs to spend time alone. Has a tendency to be
didactic, to deliver lengthy explanations on his understanding of a
subject. May lecture on ethical topics.

What he deems himself capable of doing, he will also require from
others. May become too deeply immersed in the details and the
calculations, at which point he risks losing sight of the broader view.
Uncompromising in his convictions. The fall of the ideals that he has
previously followed treats as a personal tragedy. Distrustful of
strangers and people about whom he knows too little. When he discovers
some negative traits in another person, loses trust in him for a long
period of time.


Detailed description
--------------------

LSI studies any matter that occupies him in great depth. He stubbornly
and persistently collects information to attain a thorough understanding
of the subject. He favorably views well-organized and smoothly
functioning systems. Anything that does not fit into the system he
rejects as nonsensical. He will regularly check the progress of any
venture that interests him. Consistent and operative, strives to do his
job well and looks to same from others. Is perceptive of existing
hierarchies. Does not take into account personal sentiments when it
comes to business. Cannot tolerate when someone takes his things or
moves his belongings without asking.

Sober realist: sets only feasible goals for himself and in most cases
achieves them. If explanations and warnings did not have any effect can
shift to pressuring methods of influence. Knows how to force his
opponent into a corner and squeeze him. Stoic: can keep himself in
control, tolerant of adversities. Will force himself to do that which is
necessary but uninteresting to him. Helps and protects those who are
weak and defenseless. Looks after the old and the sick. Can be lone-wolf
fighter for justice who keeps a low profile.

In public, he holds himself politely and appropriately. Can make himself
be cheerful and sociable. Easily makes short-term, situational contacts.
With his behavior evokes trust. Patiently listens to those who have
approached him, sympathizes with them, demonstrates his disposition.
Even though he comes into close contact with many people, he rejects
excessive familiarity. Stern with family members. Loves to educate using
terse statements. Reliable in his affections, although it can happen
that he gets torn between two objects of his sympathies.

Very attached to his worldview. Does not change his views easily, not
inclined to make concessions and compromises. Chooses friends who have
compatible views to his own. Uses himself to judge the capabilities of
others: "If I can do this, then why not others?" Knowledge gained
through direct experience serves as a substitute for intuition for him.
Can trust someone who is well-wishing and attentive listener, who does
not take sides. Values intelligent, artistically gifted people, may even
forgive them selfish and unethical actions.

Often is in a gloomy, serious mood. Accumulates negative emotions.
Periodically pours them out on someone else and feels temporarily
relieved. To be in good condition, he needs frequent fluctuations of
emotional background. Cannot stand to be pressured by negative emotions
- crying, whims, accusations. It is easier to give in for him than to
ignore them. Internally rather touchy and vulnerable, although does not
show this considering it to be weakness.

Finds it difficult to tolerate people who are not punctual and who
cannot fit into allotted time. Lives at a measured pace. Does not like
unnecessary disruptions in schedule. Frightened of what fate may bring,
of unpredictability. Although he generally rejects mysticism, will
warily listen to prophecies, divinations, interpretations of dreams.
Becomes mobilized when there is an unexpected but important job that
needs to get done in a short period of time.

Very thrifty in his work and shopping. Will keep used and worn-out
things just in case. Seeks to do more with less effort. A supporter of
mechanization and automation. Would rather control revenues than
expenses. Exercises control over actions of other people. If they are
illogical or inappropriate, suspects that something is wrong.

Monitors his appearance and pays attention to appearance of others.
Strives for tidiness in clothing, at home and workplace, although not
always maintains it. Often is capable at handwork, repairing or
tinkering with something at his home. Good at delicate manual
operations, especially if they are related to design and decoration.
Likes simple but healthy food. Steadfast in his tastes and habits.


Manner of communication
-----------------------

The LSI easily comes into contact with other people, knows how to
establish close personal distances. Catches the attention of others by
his witty commentary or jokes, especially persons of opposite sex (for
male LSIs). Often behaves like a gallant cavalier, exquisitely and
politely considerately. Knowingly courts the ladies, plays well the role
of a "hussar" (for :doc:`sensory subtype <LSI_subtypes>`). Often becomes
the communicative center of a company. Gravitates to performance of
romantic songs with a guitar in the spirit of the movie "Cruel Romance".
At official level of communication, he appreciates accuracy very much.
Pays great attention to numbers, indicators, factual material, concrete
logic of objects. Any question or issue he considers thoroughly,
considering and working through all the details. In judgments and
assessments - he is a sober realist. Dislikes unsubstantiated
speculations and reckless proposals. Believes that any issue needs
thorough preparation. In his speech one can frequently hear basic truths
and educational statements, which are appropriate to the moment. The LSI
is characterized by a tendency to edification. Likes posters, wall
prints, and other visual aids. In an informal atmosphere, in a tight
circle of close friends, he is inclined to discuss and speculate on
philosophical and moral topics. Sometimes he has a certain attraction to
religion, mysticism, predictions, and other forms of manifestations of
deep intuition. When someone comes to him with a question, doesn't turn
the person down. Will always give advice where to go, whom to talk to,
which order exists in some business or project.


Features of behavior
--------------------

A characteristic feature of behavior that allows to confidently identify
a person of this type - is good adaptability to his position within a
hierarchy of power. As a child, the LSI tends to be obedient, good kid,
respectful of his elders. At school he may set an example to others,
given responsible assignments by his teachers. Very operational. A good
organizer. When he is appointed to a post, shows clear administrative
inclinations. Maintains strict discipline. Doesn't cut slack to anyone.
Tough in asking about implementation and completion of adopted
decisions. Likes and respects the hierarchy of degrees, titles, and
positions. Follows the chain of command. The LSI is very trusting in
matters of human relations. Being aware of this, he is suspicious of
people who violate basic ethical standards of behavior. Sometimes he
imagines conspiracies, poor intentions of other people. Those who do not
openly express their relation to him fall under suspicion. He loves and
collects books, especially reference books, encyclopedias, and
dictionaries. Doesn't like to admit that he doesn't know something in
his field. At home he maintains almost a military order: all his things
are strictly within their designated areas, even if he has many of them.
The LSI dislikes it when they are moved, or handled carelessly. Around
himself he constantly creates comfort and order. Knows how to tinker,
how to repair something, and in general how to work with his hands. At
home he is unpretentious, doesn't need sophisticated food. His diet can
be one and the same, but has to be of good quality.

Appearance
----------

A person of this sociotype is easy to notice from distance by external
characteristics. However, this mostly applies to male representatives,
as women of this type typically don't have any striking external
features. The first thing that strikes the eye in figure of the LSI - is
certain fundamentality, solidness. A person of this type solidly stands
on his two feet, which gives an impression of solidity and firmness. His
head sits on his shoulders straight, almost not turning. His body tends
to turn together with his head. When walking, the LSI doesn't swing his
hands. His hands seem fixed at the elbow, his palms and fingers do not
hang. Sometimes it seems that he's holding his hands by his sides. LSI's
gait seems soft, smooth, gliding. However, at times he makes sharp turns
and deviates from the previous straight path. The most notable feature
of his face are the cheekbones. Due to this, in his facial appearance
there is something eastern, Asian. The tip of the nose may be turned
upward. The expression on his face is usually static, fixed,
inexpressive and focused. Male representatives of this type may have
beautiful, lush mustaches. LSI's clothes show signs of tidiness and
neatness. His dressing style is usually strict, inconspicuous, not
wrinkled or dirty if possible. Men of this type always look good in
military uniform. To violations in dress code, when someone comes to
their post dressed inappropriately, they relate quite critically.


As a subordinate
----------------

| **Strengths**
| Hard worker, with a strong sense of duty, demanding of himself and his
  subordinates. Likes to implement knowledge into practice. Prepares for
  everything in advance, dislikes improvisations. Trusts only those
  sources that he has tested before. Good at analyzing specifics. Delves
  into details and doesn't overlook the minor things. Accurately
  maintains documentation. Likes to verify facts. Readily shares
  information with those who approach him on topics where he is
  knowledgeable. Consistent in his affairs and decisions. Good at
  follow-through: almost always brings what he has started to finish. In
  an administrative position he is able to establish discipline and
  order. Always checks on the execution of the tasks he has assigned.
  Intolerant of irresponsibility and slacking. Work for him is more
  important than personal sentiments. A good organizer and a thorough
  worker.

| **Problem areas**
| Uncompromising in what he considers to be important. Periodically
  demonstrates formal and aloof attitude. Lacks flexibility in dealing
  with people. Poor at keeping track of their individual abilities and
  preferences. Quite intolerant of other points of view. It is almost
  impossible to make him change his belief system. Does not like it when
  others object to him or impose their will or methods. Secretive, does
  not like to share his impressions with others. Afraid of change and
  instability, and for this reason may adhere too much to existing
  hierarchy. Has poor understanding of how others relate to him. Cannot
  stand when someone touches his things without permission or meddles in
  his affairs.

What cannot be expected of him:

-  Being attuned to needs of other individuals;
-  Nuanced understanding of talents and capabilities of others;
-  Quick re-adaptation in understanding;
-  Concessions and leniency in matters of his principles;
-  Generation of unconventional ideas.

Recommended occupations: Performs well at assigning duties and
monitoring their implementation. Can be effective at hands-on
administrative positions especially if the group does not exceed 8-10
persons. Great for departmental supervision. Can do quality designs,
tinker with anything with his hands. Works well in technical fields. Can
become an instructor, supervisor, mechanic, tax inspector, investigator.


As a supervisor
---------------

Methodical, disciplined, committed to accuracy and organization - these
are the fundamental characteristics of this type, which establish his
reputation as a reliable person. He can be trusted in fulfilling his
promises. Will perform them faithfully. He is not dynamic, but very
strong-willed and authoritative person, who will get what he wants not
by swoops and impulses, but via patience, commitment and attrition.

| Supervisor-instructor
| As a supervisor he gives instructions on exact implementation of
  various tasks and orders. "Instructor" is characterized by one-way
  communication, where he defines the roles of his subordinates, as well
  as what, when, where and under what conditions the work should be
  done. Inclined to solve problems of technical nature. Has difficulty
  seeing intangible opportunities, accounting for potential new stages
  in development of a situation. He is wary of bold innovations,
  particularly if they involve a lot of risk. Aims to achieve practical
  results. Will try to remove any conditions that can cause instability
  and imbalance.

His main instrument of assimilation of information is concretized logic.
He thinks about all the specifics of whichever job he is working on,
about exact organization, about functional responsibilities of the
participants, in short, he tries to include everything. Nothing should
go unnoticed, unexamined, and unclarified. Does not like ambiguity,
equivocal and fuzzy situations, chaotic information. Prefers a poor
result to no resolution at all. In process of reviewing seeks accuracy
and clarity. Easily notices parts of a project that haven't been thought
out very well.

His mind is oriented at scrupulous study of specific problems or fields
of knowledge. He studies them in depth and builds vertical structures or
hierarchies. Compares existing classifications and systems to each
other, considers accumulated empirical data. Knows how to choose the
best, most reliable scheme and will then work within its framework. Does
not take well to major structural breeches. His reasoning is directed at
improvement, addition, mending, polishing of the existing methods,
schemes, and procedures with available to him material.

The result of his thinking are logical deductions which serve as
instructions and directives for establishing order. He is a supporter of
cohesion and organization and does not like deviations and discord.
Unexpected manifestations seeks to explain through known, established
information. Following objective logic, aims to encompass the subject
completely and comprehensively. But cannot do this quickly. He always
takes time to prepare. He does not like fantasy and improvisation,
reckless projects. Sober realist. Thinks, calculates, lays out
everything on its shelves.

Has in inclined towards dominance in groups, being taken by a particular
idea and a desire to put it into practice. Demanding, intolerant of
fluctuations, spinelessness, and negligence. Favored form of guidance is
usually strong-willed pressure, which manifests itself in various forms
(administrative pressure, persuasion, discrediting). If he occupies a
high position may show some dictatorial tendencies. When he is in lower
ranks, he usually feels the limits, perceptive of how much
insubordination is allowed. Looks to discipline only on his "territory"
or within his area of competence.

Does not get emotionally involved in interpersonal dealings of others.
His motivation to influence people is particularly reflected in the
desire to impose his own vision, his own solutions to problems. At the
same time, he doesn't feel much of a need to be closer with people. May
avoid group interactions and gatherings, where due to nature of
interaction there is no certainty that everything will go as intended.
Seeks privacy to think over problems in solitude. Can spend a good
portion of workday talking on the phone.

His business activity can lacking in dynamism due to his inclination to
think and analyze first. But this only concerns situations for which he
hasn't already established workable patterns of behavior. In familiar
situations he may spring to action, act in brash and audacious manner.
If he wants to achieve anything, he usually does not stop trying until
he reaches it. Very persistent and steadfast. Usually displays a
responsible and conscientious attitude towards his assignments. In this
regard, demanding of himself and others.

When establishing business contacts focuses on objective criteria.
Judges people by the concrete results of their performance (efficiency,
diligence, attitude towards their work) regardless of his own sympathies
and antipathies. Aims to achieve competence and expects the same from
others. Will avoid establishing partnership with people whom he deems to
be incompetent.

Uncompromising, but compensates for this by strong sense of purpose and
perseverance. Disagrees openly if the situation is not in his favor.
Tries to disperse his opposition and draw them to his side. Achieves his
goals by using a strategy of "shrinking iron loop".

Main characteristics:

-  Performs well in solving tactical problems.
-  Can adequately fill the role of hierarchical leader.
-  When establishing business contacts focuses on objective criteria.
   Refrains from making emotional evaluations or letting his own
   emotions influence the situation.
-  Business activity is expressed in the persistence, focus, taking into
   account details pertaining to his work.
-  Interaction with subordinates often takes form of "trainer -
   students." Independent initiative is not supported.
-  Achieves major results through the creation of sophisticated
   organizational structure.
-  Demonstrates commitment to the principles in business, often in a
   very formal manner.
-  Motives and goals: self-interest, profit and success of the
   organization through measured and consistent performance.
-  Attitude to the law: will verse himself in rules preemptively to not
   fall into trap and appear incompetent.
-  Strategy: maximum attention to productivity, little attention to the
   human factor.


Working conditions
------------------

The incentive for work of LSI is to achieve a high level of prosperity.
He qualitatively and reliably performs work assigned to him, hoping at
the same time that he will be paid by the merit. Since this type
prioritizes concrete returns, it is best to motivate him to work with
something tangible e.g. gifts, bonuses, etc. The LSI likes to work at a
measured pace. Cannot tolerate jobs that require hurry, urgency,
constant changes of plans. When he is rushed and required to rapidly
change his course of action, he may flare up with anger. Likes it when
he is entrusted with a specific, not very big assignment, such that he
will have an opportunity to think it through in advance. Readily masters
technological innovations that could facilitate his work. Can be
inspired to do work by emotionally charged warnings about dangers and
troubles that will follow if he doesn't take action in a timely manner.
Dislikes it when someone is interfering with him working, thus lowering
the quality of his work. Seeks out environments where he won't be
distracted, but can work quietly and independently.


Recommendations for self-improvement
------------------------------------

Your strengths lie in being realistic, careful, capable of following
through with any project or activity you take upon yourself. You are a
responsible person who doesn't throw promises to the wind. You are
characterized by a desire for order, discipline, clear rules and
regulations. You are impatient of any kind of negligence and
irresponsibility. Your thinking is realistic, grounded, guided by
objective, concrete factors, not by sentiments. You can perform an
in-depth development of specific areas of operations. You are assertive
and purposeful. There is no doubt that you make a good administrator.

You also advocate of the use of disciplinary measures against people who
are not performing their duties. Do not overdo with applying pressure to
others. Try to first understand what constitutes a true instance of
misconduct worthy of punishment. You may be too uncompromising in
meeting high standards in the home and at work.

One of your main problems - lack of confidence in situations that
require breaking the established views without clear prospects, distrust
of unexpected ideas and proposals that require rejection of past values.
In such cases you may be overtaken by a feeling of impending chaos. Try
to abandon old outlived stereotypes after carefully weighing the pros
and cons. Keep track of new, unconventional ideas so that they do not
catch you by surprise.

Trust people more, don't imagine causes of failures as someone's
deliberate machinations. Do not demand same performance out of everyone,
remember that everyone has different abilities and talents. Try to
develop a more individual approach.

If you are the leader, do not suppress creative initiative in your
subordinates or try to monitor their every move. Do not seek to prove
yourself by following every regulation and instruction, however
obsolete. Extend your range of interests and hobbies, do not focus on
one thing. Remember that the most advanced ideas of present times were
not recorded in any book in the past.

Your other problem is occasional sharp variations and irregularities in
your dealings with people. You display unnatural, abrupt transitions
from showing kindness and sensitivity to manifesting authoritativeness.
Remember that you have a tendency to show insensitivity and rudeness in
close relations. Try to keep a moderately restrained attitude to not
escalate possible misunderstandings and conflicts to dramatic
resolutions. Do not consider that others are obligated to help you. Do
not bore people with redundant moralizing and lecturing. Even if you are
right, your didactic tone can make them shun you.
