Lvov, Vladimir
===================


**Vladimir Lvov** is a journalist by profession, introduced to socionics
in 2004, took courses in it in 2005 and later set up his own website for
typing services. Author of original methods in distance typing that
heavily rely on use of Reinin traits for determining types of people
from their interviews and written text. Offers courses for teaching his
methods of distance typing through his website. In 2014 published a book
titled "*Socionics 2.0. Types as you never knew them*". Serves as the
administrator of http://forum.socion.org/. Besides his interests in
socionics, he also publishes in journals of "Industry of Soccer",
"Business Journal", "Socionics, Mentology, and Psychology of
Personality", "Boss" as well as on the site Headhunter.ru, enjoys heavy
music. Self-types as "Huxley" IEE.



Lvov on socionics
-----------------

"In my opinion, socionics should help real people live in the real
world, and not try to impose another utopian idea. The human psyche and
personality types are more complicated than it seemed to the founders
socionics. My experience of diagnosis of hundreds of people shows that
for a method method of implementation one needs a good understanding of
all of the Jungian and Reinin traits, and only the model that fully
accounts for all of these criteria can adequately describe any
sociotype. There is only one simple and universal recipe for happiness:
each of us has the freedom to choose our own path. This understanding of
socionics serves as the basis for my counseling program and teaching
services".



See also
--------

-  `Modernsocionics.ru <http://www.modernsocionics.ru/people/wlcross>`__
-  `Socion.org forum <http://forum.socion.org/>`__
-  `Lvov in video <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e4ZOSi1ZIYs>`__
-  `Page on
   socionic.ru <http://socionic.ru/index.php/2010-09-24-11-44-46/477-lvov_vladimir_2>`__
-  `Page on
   Zanoza.ru <http://zanoza.socioland.ru/wiki/%D0%9B%D1%8C%D0%B2%D0%BE%D0%B2,_%D0%92%D0%BB%D0%B0%D0%B4%D0%B8%D0%BC%D0%B8%D1%80>`__