Mirror
=================

*See also* :doc:`Mirror observations <mirror_observations>`

*Back to* :doc:`Intertype relations <intertype>`



Introduction
------------

**Mirror** is an :doc:`intertype relation <intertype>` of
intellectual stimulation and mutual correction. The pair shares common
interests, but differ slightly in thought process and methodology.

Initially, Mirrors find plenty of things to talk about. They easily
understand each other's philosophies (and usually find that they agree)
on basically all issues. They are surprised to find that the other can
provide a subtly different outlook and recognize valuable things they
themselves would tend to overlook. As the relationship gets closer,
their differences become more of an obstacle. When everything is
apparently all said and done, one Mirror will point out something they
consider to be a loose end. This perplexes the other, because the point
appears to them inconsequential and a distraction from the main point of
the process. They may even think the other is intentionally derailing
their efforts, because of their otherwise understanding attitude. This
perpetual sense of almost understanding leads to some frustration
between mirrors, despite it being a generally positive relationship. Any
tension is easily resolved by creating some distance; confrontation is
almost never necessary, and if it happens is quickly forgotten.

Perhaps more than any other relation, Mirrors can stimulate each other's
creativity and work in tandem on the same project, but this interaction
is primarily intellectual (i.e. work-related) and does not result in a
feeling of closeness or needing the other on a more instinctive level.
While they may find the discussion interesting at first, too much of it
can lead Mirrors to have a sense of emptiness and disappointment about
the relationship. They complement each other within their shared
strengths, leaving an entire half of the informational world essentially
neglected. They reinforce each other's attempts to engage the
:ref:`Super-id <superid-block>`, but these usually remain half-hearted,
continually returning to the comfort zone of the :ref:`Ego <ego-block>`.

The intellectual stimulation and surprise involved in Mirror relations
make it quite durable and friendly even over a long period of time.
Thus, Mirror is a common relationship among friends.

Descriptions by various authors
-------------------------------

**Valentina Meged, Anatoly Ovcharov**

Partners positively evaluate each other's creative work,
accomplishments, as well as concerns and doubts. In these relations it
is good to check correctness of each other's statements. Desire to learn
from each other manifest. But warmth in these relations is lacking.
Partners may try to teach each other, to impose their own views. They
are so similar yet so different from each other that they may try to
resolve and remove all differences, but this is not possible. Usually
discussions are peaceful and do not worsen relations. Closing distance,
irritation may arise from inability to fully convince your mirror
partner in your point of view. In addition, both people usually
understand each other well enough to be constantly of interest to one
another. They are capable of providing each other with sympathy and
help, however, this help is not always effective because they are not
able to fully complement each other's weaker points. Mirror relations
are favorable for discussions of common topics of interest and problems
that are solvable, however, expect that each partner will keep his own
opinion.

**I.D. Vaisband, publications on Socionics**

Partners may experience difficulties being together because each strives
to teach and remake the other. Presence of a third member of the same
quadra, who is dual to one and activator to another, makes their
interaction more pleasant. Mirror partners are very similar to one
another - both are logical types or ethical, sensing or intuitive, but
one will be an introvert and the other will be an extravert. Much of
information that gets exchanged in these relations happens across
partner's strong functions. That which one partner thinks - the other is
already actualizing. Mirror partners can learn from each other, however,
this sometimes leads to temptation to teach your partner. Serious
conflicts in this pair are usually few.

**O.B. Slinko, "The key to heart - Socionics"**

Your and your partner's creative and base functions are switched in
their positions, thus, what you're merely thinking about your partner is
constantly implementing in practice, and vice versa. This peculiarity of
mirror relations can be both beneficial and harmful. Most often, mirror
partners help each other understand a problem from different angles.
When engaged in a common project, they will divide responsibilities. On
the other hand, your mirror partner can sometimes cause you irritation
or even deeply offend you. This is facilitated by the structure of not
only his creative block, but also of superego block: the role function
that he falls upon coincides with your vulnerable, most painful
function, and vice versa, thus your mirror partner can irritate and be
feel irritated by your own vulnerable spot.

**R.K. Sedih, "Information psychoanalysis"**

The structure of the interaction between blocks is the same as in the
identity relations, but the order of functions is different. This makes
the interaction somewhat more confusing but also more attractive than
identity relations. There exist more possibilities here to provide help,
but also to hurt one another. However, in this pair it is usually the
first possibility that gets realized rather than the later, though
helping each other is difficult. This combination is especially well
suited for solving problems of professional and creative nature if
partners work in the same field. Mirror relations perhaps take the
second place in how much partners can learn from each other. They are
not recommended for marriage, however, because it is difficult for
mirror partners to take care of each other. Conflicts of mirror partners
usually occur due to some immediate reasons. Most frequently, they are
initiated by the partner of irrational type in this pair.

**Laima Stankevichyute "Intertype relations"**

Although these relations are between types of same quadra, they can be
difficult especially in cases that they are married. Partners are
frequently attempting to teach and re-educate one another. When two
ethical mirror types meet, they may feel at unease around each other and
keep some distance. When two logical types meet, they may start a
dispute or sit together in an uncomfortable silence. These types of
relations because much more pleasant when a third type from the same
quadra is present who is dual to one partner and activator to the other.

**A.V. Bukalov, G. Boiko, "Why Saddam Hussein made a mistake, or what is
Socionics"**

Left functions of one partner are right function for another, thus it is
as if they are looking in the mirror reflection of their own psyche.
However, this mirror seems curved, which prompts partners to try to
correct one another. Having compatible subtypes is important in these
relations. Situation is more favorable if partners are both of leading
function subtype or both of creative function subtype. When both are of
leading function subtype, each of them usually yields to the other in
use of his or her creative function, which softens the desire to correct
one another and lowers the chances of a conflict. These relations are
valuable because they let each partner see the other 50% of the visible
world, to observe it from two different sides. Relations markedly
improve if a third type from the same quadra is present, and improve
even further if the quadra is complete, forming two dual dyads and two
activity pairs.

**Victor Gulenko, "Criteria of reciprocity"**

*Disorienting discussion*

There is usually an interesting and even exchange of views with one's
mirror partner. However, there is also a sense of growing intellectual
competition, which over time leads one partner to disengage. Follow-up
discussions often assume increasingly controversial content and are
disorienting in nature. However, the interest towards opinion of the
partner does not disappear, thus partners make each other return to
their original positions. Much greater degree of reciprocity is found
when they engage in joint affairs.

*Binary signs of intertype relations*

This pair will qualitatively analyze problems from two opposite sides,
which allows partners to achieve deeper insights into the root matter.
Thus mirror relations are beneficial in one-on-one discussions. However,
in public one can observe a rather unhealthy tendency for competition in
these relations.

Mirror partners strive for accuracy and clarity in relations, which
leads them to subject everything to analysis. They even have a tendency
to rationally analyze each other and sort out all information they
obtained. Thus, mirror partners make many interesting discoveries about
each other and unlock many new abilities. These relations encourage
self-introspection and in-depth reflection. Mirror partners always
emphasize the "other side of the coin" for one another - an aspect of
the problem that has escaped the attention of the other partner. In this
way, a partial picture is filled in to make it complete, which leads to
positive results in joint professional and intellectual work. Each
partner nevertheless insists on his own opinion, although he will take
into account the arguments of the opposing side. There is no merger of
opinions here, only improvement of one's views by complimentary
suggestions and views of the partner, which grow more and more divergent
over time. The practical "payout" of mirror relations, however, is
usually rather low.

This relationship is often lacking in passion. There is a tendency in
these relations to live by some kind of established order or system that
get worked out with time and that the partners attempt to extend to all
things around them. Thus, in long-term established mirror relations,
partners can easily predict the main trajectory of each other's
objections. These relations are also susceptible to sharp changes in
circumstances that require changes in the established rhythm of life.
Transition to a new state of things is a rare occurrence that needs to
be thought out and concluded. After this, the old system gets discarded
and new one is accepted in its place. Mixed states and confusion between
old and newly imposed order and agreements disturb mirror relations and
undermine their fundamental quality - tendency towards analysis.

*Advice for getting along*

In mirror relations it is best to work out some kind of agreement or
order, for example, a schedule for taking care of ongoing domestic
problems and chores. Once such agreement is worked out it is better to
not change it, otherwise confusion will result. One-on-one communication
is recommended for this relationship type; try to avoid external
influences and outsiders. Subject every important to you event to
logical analysis. It is very important to reach an overall consensus
about such an event, while in details there may be disagreements and
this is not dangerous.

Don't try to sort out your relations on basis of emotions or force.
Allow your partner the right to hold a different point of view. Express
your positive disposition in kind words, compliments, and by doing small
favors for your partner.

Mirror pair requires independence. Try to provide for yourselves, avoid
going into debt. It is best to furnish your home modestly but on your
own paychecks. Relations of this kind are strengthened by collaborative
intellectual work, such as solving a crossword puzzles or watching
educational TV programs together.

**V.V. Gulenko, A.V. Molodtsev, "Introduction to socionics"**

These relationships are well suited for friendship based on shared
interests and hobbies. Mirror partners are often good friends who find
it interesting to spend time together, though in communication there is
often lack of openness and warmth. In mirror pair, the partners are both
either theorists [intuitive types] or pragmatists [sensing types].
Therefore, they can always find common topics for discussion. These
relations warm up when when a third person is present who is dual to one
of partner and activator of another.

These relations are called "mirror relations" because words of one
partner are often reflected in actions of another: that which one mirror
partner is passively thinking about, the other is actively actualizing.
However this actualization is never full. The mirror is curved, so that
partners correct each other's actions from their own point of view. For
this reason there may be confusion and even criticism and reprimands.
Each attempts to adjust the behavior of the other but such attempts
usually fail. If we consider the verbal side of communication, mirror
relations could be called relations of constructive criticism. Each sees
one half of the same issue, so it's always interesting to hear what your
mirror partner thinks regarding the subject matter. In course of
completing joint work there is mutual correction and clarification, but
criticism is easily understood and is often considered constructive.

Subtypes have strong effect on these relations. If one partner is
rational subtype, then for stability of the mirror pair it is best that
the other partner has strengthened irrationality. When both are rational
or irrational subtypes this is a worse fit, making teamwork more
difficult due to differences in temp. For family life, these relations
are not desirable: minor goals coincide for both partners, but global,
far-reaching and long-term goals often do not. Methods of achieving
these goals also remain different. The basis of this is functional
mismatch of base functions - rationality versus irrationality.

**Ekaterina Filatova, "Art of understanding yourself and others"**

In these relations, partners are quite similar - they are both ethical
or logical types, both sensing or intuitive, but one is an extrovert,
and the other - an introvert. They also differ on the scale of
rationality - irrationality. In their interaction, an active exchange of
information occurs but on powerful functions. That, which one speaks or
thinks about, the other implements without further ado. They have much
to learn from each other, though sometimes this leads to the temptation
to teach and instruct the partner.

**Eugene Gorenko, Vladimir Tolstikov, "Nature of self"**

Configuration of functions of both partners is such that they often have
common interests and values. There is good exchange of information
happening via strong functions of this pair. Each of the partners can
easily pick up on and support the initiatives of the other and help
realize them in action and implement them into life.

**Sergei Ganin**

*Heteroverted - Symmetrical - Arrhythmical*

These are relations of mutual correction. Mirror partners have similar
interests and ideas, but a slightly different understanding of the same
problems. Each partner can see only half of one problem. Therefore the
partners always find what the other partner is thinking interesting.
Usually partners quickly realize that they are very like-minded.

The area of confidence of one partner is always the area of creativity
for the other partner. What one partner considers solid and final
appears incomplete and changeable for the other partner. This difference
may often puzzle the partners especially when they fulfill their mutual
plans. It seems for them as if the other partner simply misunderstood
the main concept. Therefore partners attempt to correct each other's
understanding but usually fail, because each partner acts from their
confident side. For the same reason, Mirror partners can be involved in
really hot disputes and can even come to blows in the name of their
opinion.

However, Mirror partners are often very good friends. When they work
together on the same project, their mutual correction and adjustment
becomes a constructive criticism that is usually accepted as useful. The
main discomfort in these relations is caused by the difference in
Judgement and Perception between the partners. Mirror partners generally
agree about setting near future goals, but disagree about global aims.
Mirror relations usually lack warm atmosphere between partners. This
situation normally changes in presence of a third person who is Dual to
one partner and an Activity partner to the other.

Mirror pairs
------------

Each :doc:`quadra <quadra>` contains two mirror pairs.

-  :doc:`ILE <ILE>` and :doc:`LII <LII>`  This pair is also known as the :doc:`Alpha <alpha_quadra>` :doc:`NTs <club_researchers>`
-  :doc:`ESE <ESE>` and :doc:`SEI <SEI>`  a.k.a. :doc:`Alpha <alpha_quadra>` :doc:`SFs <club_socials>`
-  :doc:`SLE <SLE>` and :doc:`LSI <LSI>`  a.k.a. :doc:`Beta <beta_quadra>` :doc:`STs <club_pragmatists>`
-  :doc:`EIE <EIE>` and :doc:`IEI <IEI>`  a.k.a. :doc:`Beta <beta_quadra>` :doc:`NFs <club_humanitarians>`
-  :doc:`SEE <SEE>` and :doc:`ESI <ESI>`  a.k.a. :doc:`Gamma <gamma_quadra>` :doc:`SFs <club_socials>`
-  :doc:`LIE <LIE>` and :doc:`ILI <ILI>`  a.k.a. :doc:`Gamma <gamma_quadra>` :doc:`NTs <club_researchers>`
-  :doc:`IEE <IEE>` and :doc:`EII <EII>`  a.k.a. :doc:`Delta <delta_quadra>` :doc:`NFs <club_humanitarians>`
-  :doc:`LSE <LSE>` and :doc:`SLI <SLI>`  a.k.a. :doc:`Delta <delta_quadra>` :doc:`STs <club_pragmatists>`


Theoretical properties of mirror relations
------------------------------------------

Mirror partners share :doc:`Jungian dichotomies <jungian>` of
Logic / Ethics and Intuition / Sensing. They differ on the other two
dichotomies of Rationality / Irrationality and Extraversion /
Introversion.


Model A
~~~~~~~

Functions 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 reflect on functions 2, 1, 4, 3, 6,
5, 8, 7

.. list-table:: Functions of :doc:`Model A <model_a>`
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Partner 1
      - Partner 2
    * - :ref:`base function <leading-func>`
      - :ref:`creative function <creative-func>`
    * - :ref:`role function <role-func>`
      - :ref:`vulnerable function <PoLR-func>`
    * - :ref:`suggestive function <suggestive-func>`
      - :ref:`mobilizing function <activating-func>`
    * - :ref:`ignoring function <ignoring-func>`
      - :ref:`demonstrative function <demonstrative-func>`

Reinin traits
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As with all non-identical types, mirror types have exactly 7 :doc:`Reinin traits <reinin_dich>` in common, with the remaining 8 not in common.

**In Common**: |NS| · |TF| · |SD| · |DA| · |JD| · |MS| · |AD|

**Not in Common**: |EI| · |jp| · |CF| · |YO| · |TS| · |CE| · |PN| · |PR|



External links
--------------

-  `Mirror Relations <http://www.socionics.com/rel/mrr.htm>`_ by :doc:`Sergei Ganin <ganin>`


.. |EI| replace:: :doc:`extraversion and introversion <extra_intro>`
.. |DA| replace:: :doc:`democratic and aristocratic <democratic_aristocratic>`
.. |TS| replace:: :doc:`tactical and strategic <tactical_strategic>`
.. |CE| replace:: :doc:`constructivist and emotivist <constructivist_emotivist>`
.. |PN| replace:: :doc:`positivist and negativist <positivist_negativist>`
.. |JD| replace:: :doc:`judicious and decisive <judicious_decisive>`
.. |MS| replace:: :doc:`merry and serious <merry_serious>`
.. |NS| replace:: :doc:`sensing and intuition <sensing_intuition>`
.. |TF| replace:: :doc:`ethics and logic <ethics_logic>`
.. |jp| replace:: :doc:`rationality and irrationality <ration_irration>`
.. |CF| replace:: :doc:`carefree and farsighted <carefree_farsighted>`
.. |YO| replace:: :doc:`yielding and obstinate <yielding_obstinate>`
.. |SD| replace:: :doc:`static and dynamic <statics_dynamics>`
.. |PR| replace:: :doc:`process and result <process_result>`
.. |AD| replace:: :doc:`asking and declaring <asking_declaring>`
