Socionics Type Descriptions by Filatova
=============================================



.. _ILE-Filatova:

ILE (Don Quixote)
---------------------------

**Intuitive-Logical Extrovert**
**ILE  ENTp (Ne,Ti)  Don Quixote (Inventor)**

To the ILE the world is full of riddles, which conceal unusual
possibilities. By solving these he learns of their embodied
possibilities, which capably aid him in the creation of
fundamentally new logical concepts.

**Description of the Strong Functions:**

**Ne  Program function.** ILE possesses an inextinguishable interest in
the new and unusual, which promise to provide him with gripping
prospects and possibilities in the future. The greater such
possibilities are, the more they will interest the ILE. His interest
flashes instantly, causing him to dip boundlessly into a new area of
activity, but just as quickly his interest towards the subject may cool
if it doesnt seem to promise anything in the long-range.

He is exceptionally creative, constantly in search of the best way to
realize his abilities. His greatest enemy is someone who will not allow
him to realize himself, a person that tries to crush his sincere
enthusiasm with things such as routine work. ILE also wonderfully sees
the potential possibilities in the people that surround him. He pushes
others towards disclosing their abilities; he inspires them, before them
revealing prospects one more brilliant than another. His approaches do
not take heed of the established norms, nor does he hesitate in
overthrowing them, with ease he tosses the old aside where theyve
become obsolete. The ILEs behavior may frequently appear to be
unpredictable, even chaotic. This is because his indefatigable
inquisitiveness is subordinated by moments of illumination  such
moments provide the occasion needed for him to immediately act. When not
inspired by such moments he willingly spends his time with others where
hell find meaning in whatever activity he partakes in.

**Ti  Creative function.** The ILEs ability to think represents his
strong side. In solving problems he always attempts to see the
connection between the specific problem and the general situation; he
tries to estimate his response on the basis of general consideration. If
he estimates the essence/root, then the logical description becomes
obvious; consequences derive themselves from their general conformity
with the laws.

In work he is attracted to the development of strategic tasks, but not
to the scrupulous study of fine details. The ILEs principal difficulty
is to settle down and concentrate on one area [of study/work]. To do
this he needs to have a genuine need or especially strong interest.

After regarding and studying all of the data, which interests him, he is
able to conclude facts where others havent, and to create a generalized
theory of nature.

When only one aspect of his work fascinates him it sometimes occurs that
he will inadequately perceive the situation. In such cases he will be
defeated. However, this does not overly distress him: he can rapidly
move away from an unsuccessful enterprise and direct himself towards
anything new.

The ILE usually does not attempt to plan his activities in advance, but
in a crisis situation he is capable of concentrating, of finding the set
of variants for overcoming the deadlock, he knows how to yield to panic.
ILE is able to inspire others with his enthusiasm, he may promise much
but he is not always able to follow through: this is not because he
refuses to acknowledge his shortcomings but because his euphoric, and
enthusiastic, states may lead him to overestimate the possibilities of a
new idea.

His basic interest often lies within the sphere of natural sciences, but
is not excluded from humanitarian activity. If the idea of something
suddenly lights up, in his mind, he will offer leisure time to it. He
frequently varies the course of his life, from one profession to
another.

He finds it difficult to subordinate himself to routine, to strictly
regulate his work conditions; his impulsiveness may lead him to conflict
with the authorities. However, should he find work that quenches the
thirst of his creativity, he is able to bring himself to exhaustion
whilst at the same time deriving great pleasure from his work.

Physical work may also inspire him, especially when it gives him the
chance to comprehend something new, to discover the unexpected sides of
his abilities. The possibility of learning something is sometimes more
important than the eventual result.

**Description of the Weak Functions:**

**Fi  Vulnerable function.** The ILE feels nervously in the sphere of
human relations. He usually interprets his relations badly, therefore he
allows relations to develop with care, he waits until he learns
something for sure rather than assuming. Thus he behaves with restraint
in front of people he doesnt know.

He cannot always discern the state of another person; he may therefore
offend others in the manner by which he expresses what hes discovered
for he doesnt seem to take into account others feelings in regards to
the situation. But this is never the consequence of evil intent, envy or
arrogance. ILE simply believes that he is speaking about something
objectively, and that the truth will not offend anyone

ILE places vast value on the decency of a person. The criterion of
decency, as a rule, is overstated. If someone seeks his company he
assumes that mutual respect exists. He strongly suffers offense and
injustice. He will not reconcile with others, unless the offender
apologizes before him.

ILE frequently has a wide circle of friends. He loves to consider
different problems with them. They, alongside reading, radio and
television, provide him with an excellent source of information.

**Se  Role function.** ILE usually prefers not to exert volitional
pressure in his actions.

An exception to this case is when another person desires to use him for
their own purposes, to force him into some activities. In such a
situation he will give energetic resistance, decisively defending
himself from anothers pressure. In protecting himself he can often
manifest his hot temper and impatience.

In regards to everything concerning health, and the organization of
household conveniences, ILE requires anothers guardianship. He rarely
takes the effort to disturb his dwelling place, whether to organize or
cause disorder. He will only episodically arrange and/or dismantle
things if they prevent him from living and working.

The organization of his financial situation usually leaves much to be
desired. It often occurs that he does not live within his means; he
immediately spends everything he earns. But his ingenuity is always
sufficient in finding the new possibility to earn and/or acquire money.

**ILE at Work and in the Home:**

As a boss ILE is especially good at strategic questions, the ability to
see the distant prospect in regards to the selected direction of work.

He attempts to garner the attention of subordinates, to fascinate them
with the grandeur of tasks, to gather adherents around him. He prefers
not to enforce strict rules, to give others freedom. To do this he
accurately discerns the abilities of each member of the collective. He
gives them a detailed study/outline of the project for when those above
him fail to do so he becomes impatient.

In an office of position ILE is capable of manifesting persistence, he
is able to deal with a coworker that badly manages their work, however,
in such a case he doesnt let power get to his head, there is no
arrogance or egotism.

The ILE is very sociable, however, he is not always able to create a
successful family. He does not really understand the feeling of love.
Love seems to occur outside of his control. Although it occurs that
during life he may never be the one rejected or abandoned by another,
even women of this psycho-type rarely agree to completely dedicate
themselves to family.

Although he feels the strong need for the heat of contact with another,
his weakness in the emotional-sensory areas does not often permit him to
take initiative into his own hands.

**Summary of Functions:**

1.  Possesses an inextinguishable interest in the entirely new, which promises him with gripping prospects and possibilities. He readily puts to use any information source. He knows how to foresee the consequences of large events, possesses the gift of presentation. His mind is rich in fantasy.
2.  He is capable of creating a fundamentally new theory, after conjoining its details. He is frequently the initiator of new directions in science. Is able to qualitatively and consistently execute work, to scrupulously study its components, should it fascinate him.
3.  He establishes both for himself and others high standards of moral behavior. Is irreconcilable in his requirements, he does not pardon those that do not correspond. He is easily emotionally carried away by something, thus easily cooling to the previous object of interest. Is sometimes capable of victimizing others.
4.  He does not attempt to obtain something by force and, at the same time, will never give into anothers offense. Anothers pressure will be met with resistance. He rarely disturbs anything in regards to health and household conveniences. His financial situation leaves much to be desired, but his ingenuity is sufficient in obtaining money when necessary.

**Professional Assessment:**

ILE develops abilities most vividly in scientific work, in research. For
the representatives of this psycho-type, like no other, is the
possibility of initiating science in new directions on the basis of the
synthesis of fields of knowledge, which would at first seem, distant
from each other. May also successfully work in the sphere of business
and commerce; also in the carrying out of intellectual production (i.e.
book publishing).

`Discuss this profile on a
forum <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/37476-Article-ENTp-description-by-Filatova>`__

.. _SEI-Filatova:

SEI (Dumas)
--------------------

**Sensory-Ethical Introvert**

**SEI  ISFp  Dumas (Mediator)**

The orientation of main functional block of SEI: main things in life are
harmony, comfort, the opportunities for pleasant experiences  one needs
to show and to share this with others in order to make them happy.

**Description of the Strong Functions:**

**Si  Program function.** SEI's principal focus is on his own state and
condition, in the broadest sense of these words. These states include
his own physical sensations and perceptions, his well-being, health or
illness, all that concerns food and its preparation, sensation of
comfort in his environment (including at work), and his clothing (its
aesthetic value and convenience).

SEI very well feels the idiosyncrasies and peculiarities of his body, as
well as its needs. A physician, however authoritative, will not be able
to lead him off the track if he makes a diagnosis that does not coincide
with SEI's own personal sensations. Generally he considers being ill as
something almost indecent: it is foolish, in fact, not to take care of
oneself!

Just as well he understands the experiences and physical sensations of
people around him  it is enough for him to note some barely perceptible
signs and signals, which are noticeable only to him, to deduce the state
of another. At the same time, he considers more appropriate not to
interfere with another person, offering advice and recommendations. In
the area of well-being one must take personal responsibility.

Usually representatives of this type knows how to prepare food well;
they won't eat just anything. A culinary specialist of this type can
even invent something new, some original dish. Setting up the dinner
table, SEI usually tries to decorate his environment to make it
aesthetically attractive  so that both his eyes and stomach may be on
holiday. This is characteristic of SEI women as well as men.

SEI is very sensitive to the physical settings of his environment:
coziness, convenience, finishing and design, proper selection of
furniture, well thought out selection of colors  all of this he is not
indifferent to, frequently this serves as the object of his concern and
attention.

In regards to clothing, here SEI also realizes his desire for harmony:
all pieces must be comfortable, functionally justified, and pleasing the
the eye. He will not dress in accordance with fashion and prestige if it
makes him feel uncomfortable comfort is considered first of all!

**Fe  Creative function.** SEI is a gourmand not only in physical realm
but also in the realm of emotions. His emotional sensitivity manifests
in every respect: he enjoys many forms of art, especially music and
singing. Frequently he knows how to play a musical instrument and sing
for entertainment, may be a good writer, a poet, an artist. He is also
an artist in love and loves adventures in this sphere. He knows how to
pleasantly court, how to provide for both emotional and sensual pleasure
to his significant other. Depending on the circumstances, to draw
attention to himself, SEI is able to play an appropriate role to the
situation: if this is a woman, then in different situations she may seem
romantic and unapproachable, or careless and risque. Men behave
themselves similarly  excellent artists.

When circumstances unfold in a way that a breakup in a relationship is
imminent, SEI postpones until the last moment, until the last
conversation, and hopes that everything will fall into place without his
participation. He then attempts to immediately strike up new
acquaintances, then comes the final break with his previous partner.

Generally, any unpleasantness and tension in relations SEI experiences
with heaviness, and tries to avoid this by any means possible. If in his
presence a conflict flares up between others, he tries to play the role
of a mediator in order to reconcile the opposing parties as soon as
possible. He himself readily yields in fights and arguments and is
inclined to agree with his partner, if, of course, it doesn't concern
issues that are of principal value for him. He poorly tolerates
rudeness. In such situations he is capable of rebuffing the offender,
saying something excessive and possibly regretting it later. In usual
situations, his tactic is to distance himself, to leave for a
psychologically convenient territory, to return to sensory and emotional
comfort.

If someone tries to pressure him, to push him, his immediate response is
to acquiesce in hopes that the problem will be peacefully resolved, and
to harmonize the relations. Insisting on his own opinions, he as if
gently yields his position, but will act as he sees fit. As a result, he
manages to leave conflicting situations having incurred a minimum of
losses.

His aim to provide for a pleasant experience for himself and his close
ones frequently makes him the soul of social groups and gatherings. If
he doesn't like the group for some reason, he will simply find another
circle of individuals who are more sympathetic and likable for him,
since internal soulful and physical comfort are his primary motivations
in life. When for a long time he cannot have such experiences, he
becomes depressed and everything falls from his hands.

**Description of the Weak Functions:**

Te  Vulnerable function. Logic of actions is SEIs weakest function.
Its weakness manifests in inability to act thoughtfully, rationally,
productively, with minimum amount of effort invested. In order to work
efficiently, it is very important that SEI has good working atmosphere
and environment.

SEI performs poorly when he has to do routine, colorless, prosaic,
scrupulous work. If such work is expected, he will attempt to elude it,
to be occupied with anything else that is interesting and pleasant for
him. Sometimes, giving into some temptation, he may even forget his
promise and not fulfill it. He finds himself distressed when this occurs
and may try to avoid the person whom he has let down.

Being well in tune with the sphere of pleasant experiences, SEI doesn't
like forcing someone to do something, which this person may find
unpleasant. If someone points out the irrationality in his professional
and business activities, he receives such criticisms especially
painfully. He is usually not very ambitious, does not aim for social
prestige  he finds it much more pleasant to focus on simple, everyday
happiness and good relations with friends.

Ni  Role function. The weakness of this function can be observed in the
fact that SEI finds it very difficult to plan his time and perform his
work by a specific point in time. He must force himself to do this. He
usually avoids naming specific deadlines in regards to his work in order
to have the opportunity to be flexible if necessary. He may begin on his
tasks and his work long ways before it is due, worrying that he won't
make it in the allotted time frame.

He is not always capable of correctly evaluating the situation and
adapting to it. It happens that he makes mistakes in his evaluations of
people and their potential over time, thinking better of them than they
subsequently prove to be.

A very cheerful person, SEI lives for the present, doesn't miss
opportunities to enjoy himself and enjoy life, playing the role for
others of someone who seemingly has no problems in the future.

**SEI at Work and at Home:**

In professional settings, SEI frequently relies on personal relations to
attain what he wants. He tries, as much as possible, to not draw
attention of his supervisors, knows well how to set the proper
psychological distance in his relations with others. In the business
sphere he also uses his strong ability to function as a
communicator-intermediary.

Although SEI dislikes exerting great efforts over himself, if he has
found the right occupation or job  he can invest into it with great
passion. However, if he finds that the atmosphere at his workplace to be
adverse, he won't try to push through directly, to overcome something or
prove something to someone, but instead he will seek alternative and
roundabout routes in order to do as he wishes.

SEI is very attached to his family  here, his agreeableness, ability to
make a concession in case of a dispute or a quarrel, perceptiveness of
the inner states of his family members, desire to help them, to create
convenience and coziness, manifest in the best way possible. In
protecting those he holds dear, he is capable of overstepping his usual
boundaries and becoming aggressive.

SEI willingly occupies himself by domestic tasks and chores  setting up
and decorating the living space, running chores, doing groceries,
preparing food. In this, his industriousness and economic sense start to
visibly manifest. He is thrifty, knows how to dress and feed his family
members. Moreover, his thriftiness usually does not manifest as
miserliness  for his close ones and friends, he, as a rule, shows
sincere concern and generosity.

SEI holds education in great respect and tries to make sure that his
children receive good erudition, not sparing money nor his efforts in
this respect, assuming that knowledge may offer some of the greatest
enjoyments in life.

However, when it comes to discipline, he finds it difficult to adhere to
the norms and morals. He will not usually pass up the opportunity to
spend time in the company of another person if the opportunity presents
itself. He is principally concerned that everyone is satisfied, calm and
happy.

**Summary of Functions:**

1. Si: Main focus in life is on pleasure. Knows how to create coziness and comfort around themselves. Understands well their bodys needs; an Epicure and aesthete. Avoids power struggles and applying pressure to themselves.
2. Fe: Adheres to the rule of avoiding negative emotions whilst, where possible, striving to create positive emotions. Softly, and without restraint, can associate at a close psychological distance. Successfully carries out the role of intermediary in disputes, reconciling opposing parties.
3. Te: Effective, goal-directed, work is not their style. Leads by their enthusiasm rather than by systematic character. Finds it difficult to be incorporated in any regular system  acts spontaneously when applied to such a situation.
4. Ni: Theyre not very interested in what will occur in the distant future; principally focused on the here and now. SEI does not visualize well the concealed possibilities of people or events; attention is concentrated on visible concreteness.

**Professional Assessment:**

The most adequate activities for the SEI are found in the sphere of
services. Among people of this type it is possible to meet splendid
artists and musicians; people of this psycho-type may also be
successfully occupied by medicine and teaching. They realize their
potential well in the areas of interior design, fashion and cuisine.

`Discuss this profile on a
forum <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/37479-Article-ISFp-description-by-Filatova>`__

.. _ESE-Filatova:

ESE (Hugo)
-----------------

**Ethical-Sensory Extrovert**

**ESE  ESFj  Hugo (Enthusiast)**

ESE emotionally moves people in all of their behaviors  emotion; the
greatest value  positive emotions, including people in a life of
happiness and convenience, avoiding everything thats unpleasant.

**Description of the Strong Functions:**

**Fe  Program function.** People of this sociotype, as the leading
function suggests, are quite emotionally oriented. Her emotionality
manifests itself vividly in the ability to appear glad at any life
event. Everywhere she tries to create a holiday atmosphere. With the aid
of others this is easily accomplished, without bragging, by charging
those that surround her by her enthusiasm, energy and high tone.

The most trifling event may serve as a source of enthusiasm; buying an
interesting book, taking a day off work, meeting an interesting man

Life for her is like an emotional sea in which she bathes. She manages
her space, absorbs its energy, and emerges twice as strong. ESE cannot
live without contact with other people, they for her are highly valued.
Shes inclined to exaggerate their characteristics and prefers not to
note their shadow sides.

ESE seeks to avoid all negative human reactions (offense, despondency,
irritation, etc.), with the conviction: life is too short, so why spend
it so poorly? Nonetheless, in her life, as with all people, there are
objectively difficult periods. These are usually caused by tensions in
relations with other people, which weigh heavily upon her. She finds
these especially difficult to deal with if theyre connected with her
house and family. ESE may also find herself in an unpleasant situation
due to her gullibility. It occurs that her emotional impetuosity may
splash out by excessive garrulity and/or boasting.

During bad times she finds it difficult to hide her feelings, in such
situations ESE attempts to get away from it all, preferring to suffer
her troubles in isolation. She assumes that others will seek her out and
share their happiness, which shell then increase.

Generally ESE suffers horribly in any conflict situation, even when she
isnt a direct participant: shes easily emotionally entangled in
quarrels and takes everything too close to heart.

**Si  Creative function.** ESE is the romantic and aesthete, loves to
create a warm social atmosphere. This is noticable in the external
manner of her behaviour: after meeting a familiar she will stop and give
the gift of her radiant smile (men of this type will bow). One of an
ESEs greatest pleasures is in entrusting gifts to others. Their
principal goal in this to is to give another pleasure, to become a
witness of their happiness. The price of the gift is considered
unimportant: its not without reason that ESE is famous, amongst her
friends, for her generousity and kindred spirit.

She quickly answers to any request for help, in such cases shell even
abandon her work, deemed less important. By helping others shes
compensated with the reward of knowing she did a good deed.

ESE willingly participates in the nonformal organization of different
events  of birthdays, anniversaries, christmas for the children of
coworkers, holiday expeditions, excursions; so long as shes around
interesting people she considers such her pleasure.

Very active and loves productive leisure. In sports she favours enjoying
the activity itself rather than just victory over others. Many
representatives of this type love nature  the forest, sea, leisurely
hikes, but its necessary in each case that she be in the company of
good friends.

Like no one else, ESE is capable of organizing their surrounding space
in the best way, to make it comfortable and convenient. Frequently she
possesses excellent artistic taste. She wants everything around her to
be beautiful; for happy eyes answer to peoples prosaic needs.

Quality is noticable in the ESEs clothing (especially amongst women):
refinement, elegance, faultless style, the ability to use the
inexpensive yet just as adequate dressing accessories is one of her
distinguishing features. But she never forgets about the functionality
of clothing, its convenience.

One should also note that ESEs make splendid culinary specialists.
Everything prepared by them is, as a rule, of superior taste. Even with
limited ingredients at her disposal shell devise something new and
finger-licking good!

**Descriptions of the Weak Functions:**

Ni  Vulnerable function. This is the weakest function. ESE poorly
estimates the timeliness of actions and events. She finds it difficult
to distribute energy so as to have time to do everything. Prefers to act
immediately as the needs arise, and is usually a very active person.

She evaluates people by how they relate to her and can therefore mistake
others and their motives. She is trusting and easy to deceive.

Finds it difficult to penetrate into the deeper, concealed possibilities
of events. She reasons poorly in such cases. Therefore in some
situations shell accept what is deemed appropriate and approved by
others while in other situations her temperamental, courageous nature
may push her into risky activities.

Due to a weakly developed intuition ESE frequently seems conservative.
She poorly visualizes the aftereffects of various activities and thus
prefers concrete knowledge concerned with the short-term.

Te  Role function. This function is distinguished by the ESEs restless
and emotional nature. She does not think deeply over necessary actions
in regards to her work. Shes guided by her immediate moods and her
behaviour frequently lacks forethought. She realizes her errors, in this
regard, and scolds herself for her rashness.

ESE achieves her goals more often in a turbulent and energetic fashion,
and not though systematic planning.

**ESE at Work and in the House:**

ESE deals with everything recklessly. She know how to be inspired by an
idea and follow that inspiration to its end. In order to feel herself
productive she desires a constant workload and to demonstrate only
positive results in her work. In this manner the constant influx of
energy allows her to evade fatigue. Generally prefers to work in the
emotional sphere. If surrounded by people that take an interest in her
work, and display sympathy towards her, shell work solely for their
thanks.

Boss-ESE first attempts to join the group and create a friendly
atmosphere of cooperation and mutual assistance. She zealously
undertakes her work, without delay, and impels other to do the same. Her
poor intuition does not permit her to see the precise prospects for
novelties for she is too occupied with details.

When subordinates under perform ESE reports them, or even opens conflict
with them for she identifies herself with the prestige of her collective
and wishes that work be carried out qualitatively. Shell obtain better
leadership results, in any enterprise, when in charge of a small group
of coworkers.

Shes very much tied to her family. For many  especially women of this
type  family is the most important thing in life. The ability to create
not only physical but also psychological comfort and optimism, and the
desire to bring happiness to close ones are the strongest sides of an
ESEs nature; and are vividly developed.

Her weakness, in regards to intuition, means that domestic troubles are
experienced in an extremely painful manner.

**Summary of Functions:**

1. Considers a good mood to be of essential value; finds it necessary to use her energy to increase and create such a mood. Follows moral guidelines for they provide reference points when unsure of herself. Easily associates with others at a close psychological distance; considers each individual notable and worthy of support.
2. Second to none in creating a comfortable, holiday atmosphere amongst family and friends.
3. Finds it difficult to give self up to dreams and to correctly forecast events. Frightened by the uncertainty of a situation for she poorly visualizes what she can obtain from it.
4. Finds it difficult to execute tasks in a systematic and efficient manner. Turbulent emotions negatively effect her productivity. Works well in an organized, team environment but without such will wish for someones help.

**Profession Assessment:**

The ESE may find suitable work in the sphere of services; to explain, to
help, to advise, to politely respond. In the business sphere theyll
gravitate towards human relations and advertising. Many outstanding
actors and teachers are also encountered amongst this psycho-type.

`Discuss this profile on a
forum <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/37458-Article-ESFj-description-by-Filatova>`__

.. _LII-Filatova:

LII (Robespierre)
-----------------------

**Logical-Intuitive Introvert**

**LII  INTj  Robespierre (Analyst)**

The orientation of ego block of LII: at the core of everything lie
fundamental laws, which must be uncovered through deep investigation of
the essence of phenomena and processes.

**Description of the Strong Functions:**

**Ti  Program function.** LII's weltanschauung is founded upon
understanding of interconnectedness of phenomena in the surrounding
world, its underlying structure and laws, to which everything that
occurs is subordinate.

His thinking is analytical in its nature. He strives towards elucidation
and understanding of general maxims, fundamental laws and regularities,
as he investigates and gathers information. In his mind, LII builds a
model that corresponds to his knowledge and experience, which is founded
on his understanding of the surrounding events. If he has found and
incorporated into his understanding some universal maxim, he will follow
it with determination, regardless of opposition from others. By no means
can he be distracted from what he deems to be the principal purpose of
his life. He will abandon something he has started only if he, himself,
becomes convinced of being mistaken.

His work and research often constitute the main purpose of his life.
Many representatives of this type corresponds to the label "workaholic".

LII likes precision, accuracy, order; he is meticulous and
discriminating in his reasoning. Finds pleasure in creating simple
schematics, organizing everything "by the shelves", thinking and
planning ahead. Considers that the behavior of people, especially at
work, must correspond to specific logic and a definite system.
Immediately notes the illogicality and contradictions present in the
actions of people and, as much as possible, attempts to introduce
corrections: he can express it as a criticism or offer to help,
depending on whom he's dealing with. Generally, everything that is
illogical and disorderly irritates him, as well as inconsiderate people.

**Ne  Implementation of the program.** In order to create a valid
schematic, that corresponds to what is logical, LII attempts to
penetrate into the essence of objects and events, seeks the underlying
reasons for events. Cannot live without a basic set of beliefs; if it
was necessary to abandon his old ones (this occurs extremely rarely), he
will formulate others. In such cases it is very important for him to be
convinced of the verity of the values, which are within his interests:
his understanding must have solid internal support.

Instinctive insight into the substance of the existing world constantly
leads him forward, and as soon as he has gained understanding, he is
drawn to something new. Everything that has been understood by him seems
to be very clear and uninteresting. Only

One of the LIIs most positive qualities lies in the ability to
dismantle intricate and complex questions, to reveal the important
parts, to see the problem "from above" and clearly relay his insights
and understanding to others. If he has clearly comprehended the essence
of the problem, he will not yield to his opponents and will assert his
position and vision to the end.

A very characteristic feature of the LII: he is very perceptive of the
course of time. He innately cannot waste it, spend it in vain. He works
calmly, without emergencies and urgency, from aside he seems unhurried.
His ability to concentrate, to not be distracted by external
interference, leads to high efficiency in work. As a rule, he can
accurately estimate when he will be able to turn in his work or finish a
project. His sense of obligation and accuracy manifest themselves in
everyday life as well: if LII has agreed to be at a meeting but didn't
show up  this means that something serious befell him.

**Description of the Weak Functions:**

**Se  Painful function.** LII poorly responds to volitional pressure.
Though he is often hardworking, operative, and likes organization, he
will not execute the commands of superiors, which in his view are
incorrect, or do so very begrudgingly.

If he is being treated unjustly, he will attempt to defend his right
sometimes with expressed sharpness and ardor, which catches everyone by
surprise.

He finds it difficult to fit into strict order and social hierarchy,
where everything has been previously stipulated, and there is no space
for creativity.

LII maintains rationality in material expenditures; frequently he will
save a sum of money for the "rainy day" or some unforeseen situation. He
is usually thrifty and will not spend money in vain.

His ideal of happiness is in a regulated and proper life, where there is
time for work and for leisure. He can for a very long time, sometimes
decades, adhere to the same daily routine, and feels very uncomfortable
when circumstances disrupt his measured way of life. In such cases, he
will try to regain his old way of life, since in it he finds internal
support. Excessive disorder and chaos, whether in private or
professional life, he experiences very painfully.

In regards to his health LII considers the objective reality, but he
does not trust his own sensations and prefers to rely on physicians.
When he falls ill, he strictly adheres to physician's instructions,
obtaining the prescribed medication, administering the correct doses,
and following the advised regimen.

In clothing LII frequently adheres to a "business" style that mirrors
his professional association rather than highlighting his individual
preferences. He does not care for pretentiousness and bright
accessories. Even women of this type feel hesitant to highlight their
sexual attractiveness with clothing.

**Fi  Role function**. In realm of ethics, LII adheres to the norms and
traditions accepted within his society. In nonstandard situations, acts
with sufficient care and restraint, so as to avoid situations where he
orients poorly. LII poorly discerns emotions of others. He prefers not
to interfere in conflicts or simply avoid such situations. Finds it
difficult to comfort others merely with words. In such cases prefers to
render concrete assistance, or, if this is impossible, to simply walk
away and not get involved. Outpours of emotions, complaints, tearful
confessions he tolerates poorly and does not understand what to do when
confronted by another's tearful emotional outburst.

Usually LII communicates from a large psychological distance and does
not like excessive familiarity. People, with whom he feels close, are
usually few and mostly his childhood friends. In this, the weakness of
his ethical function also manifests itself.

Thus, as a child and as an adult, she fails to develop and maintain many
friendships. In this the weakness of the ethical function manifests
itself.

Following established practices, LII's bearing is usually proper and
restrained. He does not tolerate rudeness and himself rarely resorts to
it. Often makes an impression of an aloof, dispassionate person, but
usually this is only a manner of outwardly behavior  under the mask of
restraint hides a turbulent inner life and full of intense experiences.
However, his reserved nature does not permit him to share his
misfortunes with others. For years he may harbor an offense, in the
depth of his soul, only with difficulty forgives the offender.

In relations to opposite sex, LII shows caution and judiciousness, holds
himself with restraint. He becomes enlivened in course of intellectual
conversation  in this sphere he feels himself sufficiently grounded and
capable.

**LII at Work and at Home:**

LII usually does not strive for management positions. Administrative
activity is not his element. If, nevertheless, LII finds himself in such
a position, he strives to rely on objective criteria, will provide
cohesive logical reasons to convince subordinates of the need to
undertake one approach over another. LII as a leader is more inclined
towards democratic methods, but is always very exacting. Due to his high
standards in accuracy and precision, he cannot wholly trust his
subordinates. If given authority, he will try, by himself, to check over
everything, to personally ascertain that everything that needed to be
done has been brought to completion.

Systematic and orderly person, LII adheres to his principles in the
organization of his workspace  everything that may come necessary is
within arms reach, and there is nothing in excess, which could distract
him from his work. After work, LII will clean up a little, place
everything in its previously designated places; all the necessary
supplies and materials are neatly organized on his table and shelves.

LII distinctly separates personal life and work. He has a strong sense
of responsibility in respect to his family and relatives. Being
predisposed to tradition, he is serious about marriage, cares for his
aging parents, feels obligated to provide good education to his
children. In relations to family, he is not inclined to excessive
sensitivity: the weakness of ethical function prevents him from
expressing his feelings, especially around other people.

Should one of his relatives require aid, including material, he will
offer his help, but he will not freely throw money into the wind  in
this sense he is rational. He likes to compile lists of necessary
expenditures. Attempts to guard himself in the case of possible future
adversities and misfortunes; saves money for "the rainy day".

In time free from work, values solitude and rest among family members.
He cannot simply idle around and exist without a goal. Loves
intellectual forms of sport: chess, checkers, and other cerebral games.
With pleasure occupies with creating collections, and his hobbies
photography, art, gardening, sports. All his hobbies, as a rule, require
diligence and devotion, and they must all have some positive purpose: he
will not, for example, collect designer labels. In activities that do
not require another's assistance, he can spend hours alone with a
project that he is interested in. If someone shows an interest in what
he is doing, he will willingly show and explain everything.

Many representatives of this type have a good musical taste: they love
music or even play musical instruments, and even write songs themselves.

**Summary of Functions:**

1. Thoughts have an analytic nature. Knowledge is processed in accordance with global maxims. Create a model, based on their experience, in their consciousness. Works scrupulously and meticulously, loves everything to be precise and in order, is very accurate and judicious in work.
2. Attempts to penetrate into the essence of phenomena and events, seeks the core reasons behind what occurs, generates new possibilities. Knows how to foresee the ripening of global developments, possible dangers that may result.
3. Cannot comfortably express volitional pressure. Cannot act in ways deemed dishonorable or deplorable. Is not oriented well in the sphere of personal health and maintenance.
4. Must observe norms of morals and traditions deemed necessary. Behaves in a proper manner. Prefers intellectual contact to emotional contact. Holds self at a distance psychological distance from others. Emotional expression is restrained, often based on the norms dictated by society. Tries not to interfere/get involved in conflicts. Avoids emotional situations.

**Professional Assessment:**

LII possesses all the criteria necessary for work in analytical
research. The ability to dismantle complex questions, to view the
problem in its entirety and clearly present personal speculations, makes
LII a good instructor and scientist. Amongst LII are also encountered
people in the arts, most frequently musicians.

`Discuss this profile on a
forum <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/37486-Article-INTj-description-by-Filatova>`__

.. _SLE-Filatova:

SLE (Zhukov)
------------

**Sensory-Logical Extravert**

**SLE  ESTp - Zhukov**

SLE is represented by his or her direct force on the world, and its
purpose consists of correctly designing a balance of forces and
organizing them in the direction necessary for their realization: thus
things are made possible to conquer.

**Descriptions of the activity of the strong functions:**

**Se  Program function.** Basic qualities exemplified by SLE:
volitional pressure, the uncontrollable desire for activity, sporting
tone and resoluteness. They are people of activity; contemplation, as a
way of life, is absolutely alien to them. They will attempt, by any
means, to achieve their goals, their means of achievement are not
hampered by ceremonial(i.e. bureaucratic) regulations.

In their struggles SLE will never yield initiative. If necessary they
will wait for the proper moment to act and will never forsake the
opportunity at hand. Their influence is governed by their power, often
they dont think, to themselves of other [strange] ways to solve
problems. Acting with pressure they do not submit themselves to the
success of a common cause but rather are capable of entirely taking the
responsibility of leadership amongst themselves. They are inflexible and
rigid in conducting other people towards the execution of
activities/problems. Decisively they manifest their interest in work and
are not tormented or distracted by pangs in their consciousness, even
if, for the achievement of their goals, they must pinch, punish or
offend someone. When that, which they desire, is impossible to reach
quickly and directly, they seek alternate routes and without fail tend
to attain one.

As a rule they are the innate leaders, organizers of work on any scale.
Even in a new environment, or new spectrum of activity, previously alien
to them, it remains possible to be confident that, sooner or later, they
will prove capable of taking control. True, sometimes they emanate
excessive pressure, in a volitional sense: everywhere where, in SLEs
opinion, something is under-fulfilled, or lacks completion, further work
will be managed with their personal interference. Being energetic and
ambitious, SLE assumes that the significance of an individual is
determined by their situation in society, by the ability of the
individual to attain their place in life; therefore they can prove to
be, at times, intolerant, even rough, in terms of respect, with those
with of lower status. They may consider another to be measly if that
individual failed to reach a fitting place in the social hierarchy. On
the other hand, those, whom possess authority in society, are worthy of
respect.

SLE will never resign, never allow themselves to be conquered. If forced
to suffer humiliation they will gather the necessary force needed to
take vengeance; they do not pardon offenses directed against them.

**Ti  Creative function.** In order for them to emerge victorious in
their struggles it is necessary for them to be able to select a
principal direction, in which to orient themselves, to, in time,
recognize the key links that connect different situations. The SLE is
the most sober realist of all the psycho-types: their sensory
recognition, combined with logical analysis reliant on a complete set of
information, allows them to precisely reproduce a realistic picture of
the world in their minds.

SLE logically, and sensibly, interprets the situation, checking for far
reaching aftereffects of various events. Nothing is assumed upon blind
faith. Beginning work, they fixedly consider all possibilities, collect
all the necessary information about all aspects of the task at hand, and
examine the opinions of all those surrounding, but always make the final
decision themselves.

Wonderfully understand how best to organize work and the inability of
others to act on such an optimal level. Thus the SLE will take upon
themselves, not only their own responsibilities, but also the affairs of
the surrounding people, to which SLE relates with sympathy and respect.
Even if their (sometimes nitpicking) supervision begins to irritate
another, that person will nevertheless take comfort in the possibility
of feeling protected next to SLE, the immovable wall.

In every area of activity a rapid and perceptible return is paramount.
They wish to see the result of their work, as far as possible, in a
concrete-material sense: the constructed building, the launched rocket,
the earned strategic success, the appreciation of a gift, the
acquisition of an apartment, the completion of a machine

**Descriptions of the activity of the weak functions:**

Fi  Vulnerable function. When any situations deals with the ability to
catch moods in others, the tones of attitudes, which present
themselves in people, amongst each other, and towards SLE, SLE suffers
an internal feeling of nervousness. They are apt to understand the
business concerns within a person, but not how to emotionally comfort
someone in tears, whom asks for empathy. In such cases SLE may, in an
authoritative tone, give logical instructions, Act immediately! Make
this so, and this thus, and I will help you. They thereby use their
strong functions where they dont successfully operate; in the sphere
the SLEs weak ethics of relations. Here its appropriate to consider
their personal emotional struggle. Following stormy periods of activity
they may find themselves victim to a certain (sometimes very powerful)
bout of depression. Their direct activity combined with assumed
responsibilities, not only for their own work but that of others as
well, can lead to a state of temporary exhaustion and decline of
motivation. As a consequence of this depression they are attacked by
dark moods. Their fitness for work sharply declines in such periods.
However, SLE tries to hide this state from other people; thus providing
the impression of being always emotionally guarded, chained into their
armour. Their working tone is also not constant: sometimes when they
run into obstacles, concrete or social, they are subjected to flashes of
unbridled anger. SLE is characteristic in formal business activity
deprived of the emotional heat that irritates their sensitivities.

The SLE, whom appears to others, often seems to be in such good shape
that those close to them believe this psycho-type has no need of simple
sympathy. However, this is an illusion. Being badly oriented, in regards
to the emotional manifestations of people, and constrained by their own
feelings, SLE can only externally fabricates the mask of iron man,
which internally does not exist. Women of this type, particularly,
suffer from the fact that close ones fail to develop concern and
participation in their lives. With bitterness, SLE yields consciously to
the fact that through their independence, resoluteness, hardiness, and
by their own will, they will create about themselves the impression of a
person, to whom warm sympathy, from others, is not generally necessary.

**Ne  Role function.** SLE ineptly examines the concealed possibilities
of people and phenomena. Therefore, utilizing supplementary sources,
they, in every way possible, will find out more about those with whom it
is necessary to relate.

Understanding their weakness in this area, SLE prefers not to guess, but
to utilize concretely available information, moreover to logically
evaluate others (i.e. according to their strong function). Therefore
they are inclined to judge a person by the practical characteristics of
his/her behaviour rather than on the bases of sincere observation. Hence
their judgments of others are sometimes two-dimensional.

But in the end SLE wishes to provide, to others, the impression of a
penetrating person, capable of instantly dismantling the chaos of a
difficult situation. This is what naturally propels them towards the
role of leader.

**SLE at work and in the house:**

The SLEs abilities, as leader, have already been noted. As a rule all
the results of their actions are seemingly connected, compressed into a
collective, and aimed towards the execution of a stated solution. Being
sensually oriented theyre also magnificently able to develop tactics,
which allow them to maneuver flexibly under instable conditions. Their
talents are successfully realized within the sphere of business.

In contrast to those that work systematically at a task, SLE calls to
mind the broad-range processes of a task, capably able to multi-task
amongst multiple operations. They create the impression that they
immediately champion the interests of their group rather than merely
their personal interests. When operating in a group SLE considers
themselves responsible, as a personal duty, to create a condition in
which the workers under their command are materially secure.
Simultaneously they precisely track the coordination of work within the
whole structure of production through the smaller parts; thus if an
employee frequently falls behind in their duties SLE will make sure
his/her incompetence has minimal influence on the collectives effort.
They take pride in the group subordinate to their power and quickly
dismiss any selfish individuals that pose harm to their collective.

SLE  an excellent organizer, not only in production, but in the family
as well. They know how to manage the economy of a home, know where, and
which, object to buy, can magnificently select the cheapest, highest
quality products necessary in daily life. They dont waste time securing
what is needed at any given moment.

Home, as with work, is solidly located within their sphere of control.
Thus SLE may appear to be intolerant to others in the home when their
interests conflict with his/her own. When SLE gives orders/chores to
others in their home it is expected that they be immediately executed.
Those that refuse risk an immediate conflict. At the same time, however,
SLE often will take upon themselves the duties/obligations of their
close ones. If someone, within their household, faces a crisis
situation, SLE will do all that is possible, and sometimes even the
impossible, in order to help their close one out of the difficult
situation.

**Summary of Functions:**

1. Basic qualities include volitional pressure, the uncontrollable desire for activity, a competitive demeanor and resoluteness. For an SLE victory is paramount. Know how to create comfort, to make any object convenient in their private life. Possess a good taste in the selection of clothing.
2. Know how to precisely organize the forces disposable to them, to differentiate between primary and secondary objectives. Splendid organizers of any scale. In work focuses on the large-scale, not interested in fine details.
3. Find it difficult to see something new, does not note new possibilities, prefers the path proven by practice. Rejects all that is irrational. Irrationality leads to guessing whereas SLE prefers to stick to ideas that can be undoubtedly counted upon.
4. Easily able to associate with anyone at a close psychological distance, however, finds it difficult to feel the nuances/moods between people in its relations. Tries to hide personal emotions, thus seems, to others, to be dressed in armour. Not adept in understanding the manifestation of own emotions and moods: may shout and not take into consideration the fact they offended their target.

**Profession Assessment:**

SLE is an excellent organizer/administrator of any scale in any area:
science, art, medicine They also realize their abilities in any primary
structure, in the military service, in sales. Also has the qualities
necessary to compete in sports.

`Discuss this profile on a
forum <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/37487-Article-ESTp-description-by-Filatova>`__

.. _IEI-Filatova:

IEI (Yesenin)
-------------

**Intuitive-Ethical Introvert**

**IEI  INFp  Yesenin (Lyricist)**

The IEIs principal value in this world are the invaluable gardens of
his own imagination, with the aid of which it is possible for him to
penetrate into the past and future, to feel the surrounding world in its
wholeness, to understand the dynamics of present events,

**Descriptions of Strong Functions:**

**Ni  Program function.** Introversion of IEI's intuition dictates that
his consciousness is submerged in modeling of processes of time. His
thoughts sail, flow, easily going forward and backwards in time. In
contrast to the ILI, the IEI is focused on ethics, and therefore he is
less concerned with the problems of the material world and production;
his interests lie in the development of people's emotions, relations,
and potential.

He internally observes everything as in constant motion: children  run,
adults  work, some actions are undertaken, rivers  flow, heavenly
bodies  move in the sky for the IEI, time constitutes a kind of aether
into which everything is submerged. A dreamer and romantic, the IEI is
easily separated from reality and taken by his thoughts into the land of
images and insights, from which he derives enjoyment and meaning of his
existence. He's drawn to literature containing elements of the
fantastical and breathtaking adventures. He imagines himself
participating together with heroes of the novels, giving himself up to
periods of creative imaginings. His mind, as a rule, focuses on
something that is sublime and elegant  he may think of a journey around
the world aboard an ocean liner (alongside a refined public), of an
alluring cottage with a fireplace and white piano, of beautiful
transcendent love

However, the IEI is also able to sense the imminence of events, to catch
the barely noticeable currents of attitudes and dynamics within society.
He can feel the precise moment in time when action must be taken; mostly
vividly he feels the imminence of crisis situations and danger, at which
time he becomes very agitated and disturbed.

He is adept at noticing people's characteristics, idiosyncrasies,
abilities and potential, and is drawn towards capable individuals
(sometimes for his own purposes). With respect to his own abilities and
talents there is an internal, frequently secret, conviction that he
exceeds others in his spiritual aristocratism, viewing himself as a
member of an elite of humanity, but usually he does not openly
demonstrate this perception.

Introverted intuition in the leading bloc impedes him seeing himself
from the outside. He finds it difficult to objectively evaluate his
behavior, and is inclined to justify himself in everything. His
inclination to distance himself from reality and difficulties in
self-appraisal can lead to egocentrism and excessive submersion in his
own world.

**Fe  Implementation of the program.** After he discovers the hidden
patterns and undercurrents of the events, IEI attempts to emotionally
influence people around him, in order to direct them to appropriate
actions. He knows how work with people's moods and impressions to incite
necessary reactions, but he does not accomplish this through force, but
rather through persuasion, and sometimes with an emotional surge that
signals to others that he will perish as a brittle, delicate entity if
help does not arrive and his requests are not fulfilled! He finds it
difficult to enact the necessary measures himself  pragmatic activity
is not his strongest suit  therefore he tries to orient others around
him to take action. IEI is easily inspired in favorable climate, but
also very easy to offend  sometimes a negative intonation or
reproachful gaze is all that is needed to put him into negative mood for
the rest of the day.

He is confident in his correctness, and if those that surround him do
not react to his signals and fail to follow through with necessary
actions, IEIs exasperation and emotional fervor can reach such a degree
that, for a long period of time he will not calm down, and continue to
ardently try to prove his point to all.

He enjoys being in center of attention when in the company of familiar
to him people. Knows how to behave himself appropriately  to smile, to
give a compliment, to support anothers remark, to be polite and
accommodating.

If IEI enters a period of melancholy and disappointment, and this is not
a rare occurrence, he will then isolate himself. When the dark period is
over, he will once again emerge bright and alert, with positive
expectations of the future and of his life. If he is in luck and finds
himself in a loving and supportive atmosphere, his best qualities are
revealed: the ability to be compassionate and to provide moral support.
Being keenly perceptive of the moods of people around him, he  when in
elated spirits  is ready to offer warmth and sympathy.

Possessing high impressionability, the IEI sensitively responds to all
forms of art. He especially loves music and poetry, sometimes creates
his own artwork, writes music and stories. He enjoys attending concerts
and art exhibits, manifests natural literary gift.

**Descriptions of Weak Functions:**

**Te  Painful function.** Distancing into the realm of his images and
contemplations helps the IEI to hide from reality that often proves to
be too harsh and cruel for him.

His professional activity and productivity are unpredictable, since his
capacity for work highly depends on his internal state: short flashes of
energetic activity alternate with periods of prolonged inaction. As a
rule, he his energy drive is lowered, and he therefore he finds it
difficult to continuously exert himself. The inherent to him asthenia
perceived weakness, exhaustion, and low energy  is frequently
compensated for by the need for a prolonged night sleep. For this very
reason, without the necessary moral support, he frequently finds himself
at a lower social position than would correspond with his abilities.
Thus IEI is prone to regard energetic people, whom hold a higher social
status, with a secret sense of envy, to consider that life has wronged
him, and, involuntarily trying to justify himself, he seeks external
factors that could be faulted for his misfortunes. Meanwhile, he
comforts himself in the fact that his high sensitivity and brittleness
of psyche, refinement of his principles and ideals, do not permit him to
act by the same methods as others. Thus, he justifies his own passivity
by viewing himself above the surrounding world, thereby psychologically
shielding himself. He finds it difficult to accept responsibility for
everything that happens to him. He prefers to lay responsibility on
external factors, especially if things are going badly. IEI rarely takes
up routine work of any kind, and if he does he may try to shirk from it
and carry it out negligently.

**Si  Role function.** In everything that concerns his health and
appearance, IEI tries not to appear worse than others, to adhere to the
same standards that exist in society. It should be noted, that he has an
innate proclivity to dress in good taste, with elegance and refinement,
even if his financial situation is modest. The female IEI can arrive an
hour late, but will show up in great form, in an elegant dress with
tastefully selected accessories (giving preference to darker tones of
clothing rather than bright and colorful).

IEIs do not invest a lot of effort into managing their finances. He may
overspend or save money without knowing what to do with it. Often IEI
cannot resist purchasing beautiful and elegant things that do not have
any utilitarian purposes, even if his finances do not suffice; it is
difficult for him to concern with something as prosaic as money, when it
is desirable to amuse himself by any means possible.

IEI often is a follower or an individualist and rarely a leader.
Favorable conditions for his activities  a clear-cut regulation of his
actions, preferably, in some creative sphere. He finds it difficult to
manifest initiative, to conflict with others, thus he often prefers to
go with the flow abiding by the norms of the society in which he lives.

**IEI at Work and at Home:**

Variable and indecisive, not keen on taking responsibility, not only for
others but also for himself, IEI prefers not to occupy leadership
positions. If, nevertheless, fate forces him into such a position he can
successfully manage strategic tasks. He tactfully interacts with his
subordinates, uses emotions to successfully influence those around him,
and himself seeks milder relations. It is better if he is put in charge
of a small group.

For IEI love and family are significant values in his life. He is
capable of feeling deeply for others; for years he may remember and
sympathize with his significant other even if he has been rejected.
Frequently in his imagination he endows another with romantic qualities,
which that person in reality may not possess.

At home, he finds it difficult to occupy himself with domestic tasks
this is his enemy number one. If you strictly and scrupulously demand
that he carries out his domestic responsibilities, in this manner you
will not attain anything besides embitteredness; in such cases he may
even provoke fights and arguments. In order to resolve such issues in an
acceptable manner, IEI attempts to shift the chores onto others, often
by demonstrating his helplessness so that others aids him; for this
purpose he tries to influence weak points of other people. When this
doesn't succeed, IEI may unexpectedly conduct himself in a sharp and
harsh manner, although with unfamiliar people he remains invariably
civil and gentle. Only in special cases, such as when IEI experiences
the feeling of love towards his significant other, he can mobilize his
internal forces and invest sufficient energy to carry out the burden of
domestic concerns on his own volition.

IEI loves to host guests at his home, tries to prepare a beautifully
arranged table  for him this is more important than food itself, for
the celebratory meal is merely viewed as a means of pleasant contact and
conversation. No matter what he is occupied by, in regards to others, he
will introduce the element of fantasy: the reception of guests,
instructions, handicraft IEI is not interested in treating himself in
the same lavish manner  he will only do it for enjoyment of others. For
example, he rarely prepares a fine meal for himself and feels satisfied
with a dinner consisting of bread and jam (if it happens to be
immediately available in the refrigerator).

**Summary of functions:**

1. The dreamer and romantic, IEI is easily separated from reality, knows how to sense events, to notice their dynamics. He sees the concealed potential within people, his inner essence, is capable of proposing new ideas in areas of interest.
2. Knows how to influence the moods of others, to cause reactions deemed necessary by method of an emotional surge, but not by pressure, he readily manifests warmth and participation. Loves to speak about the moral problems, about the norms of behavior, he calls those near to him to acknowledge his observations.
3. His fitness for work is unpredictable as it depends exclusively on his mood. He frequently possess low energy and therefore finds it difficult to force himself to work. Formal hierarchy, structure, organizing, systematization  all these only serve to irritate and tire him, he doesnt see the living soul in these, which is necessary to motivate him.
4. He ably feels the beauty, harmony, and commensurability in the world, but badly manages practical tasks; poor at performing repetitive chores and following precise procedures; may overspend money and look down on what he deems as "penny-pinching".

**Professional Assessment:**

The most favorable work for the IEI can be found in the realm of
humanitarian activity. This can be work in music, literature, art
studies, work in the printed press, journalism, conducting television
and radio transmissions and interviews. Sometimes representatives of
this type are found successfully working in the field of mathematics.

`Discuss this profile on a
forum <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/37451-Article-INFp-description-by-Filatova>`__

.. _EIE-Filatova:

EIE (Hamlet)
------------

**Ethical Intuitive Extrovert**

**EIE  ENFj  Hamlet (Artist)**

To the EIE life is filled with meaning when it contains emotional heat
and dramatic experiences. He guesses which idea will take the
imaginations if people and shape their feelings in the correct manner.

**Descriptions of the activity of the strong functions:**

**Fe  Program function.** Life for EIE is the sphere of emotions, which
he, as a conductor, skillfully orchestrates. He is capable to act on his
surroundings by a wide range of his own feelings  from powerful
explosions saturated by his dramatic nature, by tragedy or by
enthusiasm, by the ability to keep silent for several days and go about
with a stone face; his entire form despising and punishing, in an
unmistakable way, the person whom insulted him. People admire his bright
emotionalism, the dramatic nature of his experiences, and his ability to
respond to the most trivial changes in the moods of those around him.
His rich world of feelings contains different hues of emotions, which in
observing this psycho-type are immediately demonstrated by those
surrounding.

If others act indignantly towards him they qualify themselves as
loathsome, malicious, and envious, and action is taken. His source of
enthusiasm and delight, without fail, is anything directed to the
highest spiritual ideals In the emotional sphere EIE has a certain
standard of expression he uses to discover how the public reacts, to
him, emotionally.

In connection with this the EIE places an important role on morality,
taken aback by society he himself strives into those spheres, where, in
his opinion, this criteria is best matched. Being a very emotional man
he easily may be made victim of strange misfortunes. Towards others he
is capable of exemplifying warmth and sincere sympathy, he is very
courteous and inclined to prove to be of service, at least when
prolonged participation is not required. Wonderfully knows how to
manipulate others by their feelings. At the same time feels greatly
wounded himself, sometimes seeming like a man without skin. He
strongly depends on the opinion of those that surround him, they,
without fail, take the role of student or spectator.

In reacting to something he always feels himself to be an actor, located
on set. Because of this his behavior frequently contains a noticeable
theatricality about it, an increasing excitability, enthusiasm,
exaggerated gestures, poses. His behavior contains a demonstrative
nature, which seemingly signals to those surrounding him whether he is
unhappy, sick, insulted, sincere, flattered, ingenious, needy of
nourishment

He knows how to magnificently appear before an audience, to ignite and
fascinate the crowd through his ideas, which he preaches. He requires
interaction with someone at least everyday in order to satisfy his
everyday emotional manifestations.

**Ni  Creative function.** To take the attention of those that surround
him, to hold it in himself; leading others aids him in experiencing an
indefatigable fantasy. He is able to dedicate himself to serving a high
ideal, especially if such activity aids him in recognizing his own sense
of nobility and uniqueness. The demonstration of his uniqueness serves
to stimulate and inspire him.

As a rule he reads a lot. Not alien to having a literary gift, loves
poetry, music, painting, and cinematography. Holds close to himself the
ideas of humanism and general human values. Hes drawn towards the image
of a noble person; sometimes hell be tempted by the desire to enter
into a secular society where his talents would be properly noticed and
his value properly evaluated.

The fact that his own imagination is what makes him appealing to the
world leads to his attention being primarily directed towards global
problems. Thus flashes of mutual anxiety and sympathy to those close by
can just as easily come to naught. He may suddenly involuntarily
insult another without understanding this. His heightened sense of
vulnerability forces him into adopting a self-defensive stance; in which
case through his sharpness and intolerance he can easily deliver (with
words) a calculated strike against his target.

His strong intuition of time permits him to foresee the course of
events, and in time to feel as well as conduct himself as one man or
another. He thus has the ability to operate in the political arena. He
eagerly alerts those, whom he respects, of threatening situations and
other dangers. He straightforwardly states possible troubles to others
for it is always deemed preferable to act in an already established
situation.

EIE is magnificently capable of detecting the psychological
characteristics in others, to comprehend their strengths and weaknesses.
Makes an excellent psychologist, however, he does not always use this
talent for good. Frequently there appears a desire, in EIE, to
manipulate close ones, and the nature of this manipulation depends on
his concrete relations he has with the individual.

EIE finds it boring to live the measured, routine life, he is motivated
and inspired by extreme situations. If such situations fail to present
themselves, for long enough, he will create tension around himself,
forcing something to happen.

**Descriptions of the activity of the weak functions:**

**Si  Vulnerable function.** If he does not doubt in his own abilities
and uniqueness then he is utterly capable of taking care of his health
and household  spheres where the EIE often feels the need for the help
and council of other people. As a rule he is clean and squeamish. But he
poorly recognizes his bodys needs, thus he may either constantly run to
the physician or react in the exact opposite manner and not visit
medical institutions until he literally collapses.

He often lacks the ability to discern the appropriateness of his
observations before communicating them. Thus he appears to lack
etiquette and this is reinforced by rough or vulgar manifestations in
his behaviour. He often yields to his immediate mood, when this is
positive, often because hes been incited by public attention, he can
present a commendable sense of generousity and charity. Such traits are
dependent on his mood and, likewise, when effected negatively he may
treat others meagerly, as if pitying them.

EIE often experiences difficulty in selecting clothing for himself,
which adequately fits his frame. Some are able to overcome this
shortcoming, however, and develop a good taste in selecting an
appropriate outfit. Conscious of his ability to make an educated guess,
in regards to the essence of what is happening around him, and confident
in his correctness because of this, he is capable of acting with
volitional pressure. Specifically if before him is someone, whom EIE
considers below himself, whether in regards to age, level of culture
etc he sometimes desires to humble this person, to put them in their
place.

**Te  Role function.** Emotional enthusiasm plays an integral role in
the EIEs fitness for work. Without such influence he can wonder about,
deeply drowning in his troubles, and thereby justifying his own inertia.
But if his work fascinates him he burns with a bright flame. In such a
situation it is difficult to sway him from his course; its even
difficult for him to stop, in such a situation, and acknowledge other
vitally necessary tasks (i.e. preparation of food). He relates, as a
rule, to creative work, and conversely disdains any sort of manual
labour. When he finds himself forced into a course cloth type of
labour he prefers to work on people instead of the task at hand, he
utilizes his ability to convince, to inspire, to operate the emotional
levers present in the situation (he thus compensates by acting with his
strong function).

EIE enjoys realizing himself in the intellectual arena. He takes
pleasure in demonstrating the implications that philosophical problems
present. He loves discussions with abstract themes.

**EIE at work and in the home:**

Generally EIE exerts a noticeable amount of effort in regards to his
career. In such cases his thoroughness and accuracy of execution earn
him deserved praise. He prefers there to be structure/order in his work.
He suffers when forced to divide his attention between his career and
domestic duties for he runs the risk of overworking and tiring himself.
Nonetheless when forced to choose he gravitates towards his career,
especially if under the constant attention of his associates. Domestic
duties truly only serve to irritate him, here he prefers to divide them
with close ones.

When in a leadership position EIE, more than anything, draws upon his
moral leadership skills, his ability to entice and inspire associates
with heightened expectations. Understands the strategic prospects of the
enterprise, knows how to generate new ideas and how to find nontrivial
approaches to the situation. His understanding of psychology combines
with his ability to manipulate people and contributes towards allowing
him to easily force others to execute the necessary actions. Rather than
isolating himself in a high executive position he prefers to work
alongside his associates, whom likewise provide him with admiration and
acknowledge his high morals, ethics, working qualities and uniqueness.

All the characteristics of the EIEs psyche are also visible in his
familial life. When he shares warm relations with others in the
household he frequently demonstrates cordiality and sensitivity. When
positive relations are absent, on the other hand, the negative
properties of his nature manifest themselves: capriciousness,
foolishness, and intolerance.

EIE worries, and exerts much effort, in insuring the material needs of
family. In household interaction he places little value on the
observance of formalities and/or traditions; these to him are
unimportant. He takes close to heart any risk of his significant other
abandoning him and if faced with such a situation hell not hesitate to
cause a commotion, expressing the moral terror of his predicament.

In other situations EIE requires the attention and concern of the family
in which he belongs. If ignored hell begin to harbor jealousy in
regards to the relations shared by other members of the family.

When true love presents itself in his relations everything is for the
better. His rich fantasies and emotionalism are directed towards the
creation and maintenance of a loving familial atmosphere. In this case
the EIE presents himself as the excellent family man; the sensitive,
understanding, and thoughtful husband and parent.

**Summary of Functions:**

1.  Life for EIE is focused within the sphere of emotions, which he skillfully controls like the conductor of an orchestra. Without the surge of a periodic dramatic experience he finds himself unable to work. He attempts maintain a certain standard, in regards to his emotions, which serves to inform those around him his current condition.
2.  He foresees the possible course of events and possesses a sense of fantasy and artistic taste. Wonderfully reveals the possibilities of what may have been and what never was, knows how to inspire people with fantasy and to manipulate them.
3.  Not confident in determining physical needs and not always capable of organizing a routine manner of living; spends money reasonably. His volitional efforts are of an unpredictable nature and their essence is directed towards the people in close proximity. He may push too hard without any definite reason.
4.  Finds it difficult to work on large tasks; prefers delicate, thorough, and scrupulous work. Finds it difficult to strictly follow a definite system, in such cases it is necessary to find help.

**Profession Assessment:**

EIE works most effectively in areas where required to fascinate an
audience (i.e. theatre, teaching), the possibility of controlling the
emotions of crowds also leads them into politics. Frequently possess a
literary gift, musicality, love for painting, dances can achieve
success in these fields. Also can work successfully as a psychologist.

`Discuss this profile on a
forum <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/37477-Article-ENFj-description-by-Filatova>`__

.. _LSI-Filatova:

LSI (Maxim Gorky)
-----------------

**Logical-Sensory Introvert**

**LSI  ISTj  Maxim Gorky (Inspector)**

For LSI, life must correspond to a specific system  both in the
material world and that of human relations, and one should exert efforts
to ensure its betterment, maintenance, and restoration if it has been
disrupted.

**Description of the Strong Functions:**

**Ti  Program function.** Logically sensible and elegant system  this
is the foundation for everything. LSI attempts to find such logical
system, to become incorporated into it, to follow it and to perfect it.
He analyzes and thinks over everything that surrounds him. From this
information, he creates classifications and designations, creates
hierarchies, derives maxims. All of this must be clearly stated and
presented in various directions and instructions that aid in
understanding and organizing life.

It is clear to him that whoever does not waver and follows such
prescriptions will attain more in life, if he ceaselessly works hard and
achieves commendable results  then such person will be able to attain a
worthy place in society.

He is proud of having such ability, and it is exactly in this that he
realizes himself. His pride suffers if another person is capable of
doing the same job better than him. In such situations, LSI is capable
of assuming work with thrice the force in order to not fall behind, for
he finds it absolutely unacceptable to fall to a lower position in the
conceptualized hierarchy he is aware of in his mind.

Such a person can be very productive. LSI is usually very conscientious:
he considers it paramount that he works qualitatively, sequentially and
systematically  with this he builds himself a foundation and asserts
himself.

LSI is inclined towards realism  hes interested primarily in concrete
and actual problems, rather than hypothetical issues. LSI thinks deeply
about any problem, tries to understand its essence and roots. When he
doesn't understand something, he refers to established databases of
information to check that everything corresponds to what is already
known. In such situations, his mind starts to resemble a computer with a
built in program, which he will follow without skipping a line.

Se  Implementation of the program. Represents his volitional qualities
purposefulness, competitiveness, power to make things happen. These
are the basic traits he relies on to realize himself in practice.
Efforts of LSI move him to higher positions  to prevail in a group, to
correctly apply his abilities and to qualitatively organize his labor in
work that is deserved. LSI lives within a system of his own
understanding. He is watchful that others around him respect his
position. Simple disagreement with his opinion, he may take to be a
challenge or a threat, an encroachment upon his position, and
immediately rebuff the supposed aggressor.

LSI possesses outstanding endurance and stamina. He tries to reach high
quality in everything that he does  few can exceed him in the
thoroughness, honesty and the aesthetic value of his work.

**Description of Weak Functions:**

Ne  Vulnerable function. Estimating someone's potential and
hypothetical possibilities makes LSI nervous. He finds it difficult to
evaluate the qualities in people, assess distant prospects of
development, possible demands for a commodity in the future. For this
reason, in all matters, LSI prefers to act with care. He does not always
succeed at understanding the psychology and motives of a person.
Inclined to level out idiosyncratic qualities of individuals. Poor at
taking into account the specific features of others and prone to
generalize and stereotype. It is difficult for him to recognize an
unordinary individual, for he cannot be easily classified and
incorporated within a scheme. Realizing his goals with iron
stubbornness, he cannot conceive that there are spheres of life where
his straight logic does not work.

His introverted intuition (Ni) is also usually not too strongly
developed: he has little interest in vague possibilities and romantic
notions.

**Fi  Role function.** In his relations with unfamiliar people, LSI
tries to behave appropriately in accord to the norms of behavior. At a
distance he seems like a comparatively gentle man: he rarely raises his
voice and outwardly behaves in a peaceful manner. But one ought to
remember that LSI is a person of reserve who does not say everything
which he thinks. He cannot always feel and interpret the moods of others
and is capable of voicing a criticism, which may be true in nature, but
which is offensive in form.

It is difficult for him to establish desired relations with others
outside of work. At the same time he finds it difficult to alter his
already established relations, even if he feels changes are needed.

With his logically appropriate manner of behavior, which seems strict,
and occasionally may be even callous, a certain moments he is given to
emotions and sentimentality. In his free time, he may watch tv shows and
movies that bring tears to his eyes. These manifestation of extroverted
ethics (Fe) in the LSI can be rather childlike and undeveloped. But
there are also such moments when LSI suddenly flares up with anger
during these moments he finds it difficult to control himself.

**LSI at work and in the home:**

LSI considers himself capable of occupying leadership positions, for all
his efforts are directed towards making his work better than others. He
knows how to precisely formulate tasks and how to subordinate them, to
instruct others with great detail and simultaneously require the same
preciseness in their execution.

As a boss LSI develops exacting demands, he can apply sufficiently
strict sanctions to those that misbehave. After having made great effort
to create and maintain his sense of dignity he considers it correct to
not overly rely on the opinions of those below him, but he assumes
himself obliged to strictly execute the commands of those above him. In
order to secure the respect of his subordinates he prefers to use
juridical laws and departmental regulations.

Being an administrator, LSI considers that all must be subordinated to
what, in his opinion, is correct. He is capable of systematically
conducting himself in life, to iron out any indulgences in himself and
others.

However, one should not, reading this, get the impression of the LSI as
a walking machine. It should be noted that every sociotype is first of
all human. Certainly, on the basis of all that is stated above, it is
not difficult to conclude that the LSI is first of all a person of
system and logic. That he is able to best manifest the strongest aspects
of his nature under precise, strict conditions. When he feels himself to
be part of a system/group he is confident and calm.

Speaking about this psycho-type it must be noted that rarely will there
be found people whom possess the same degree of reliability as him. He
is the honest partner, executive, worker, and the loyal husband. If one
seeks a person upon whom they can rely then in this almost no one will
exceed the LSI. In relations with other he is strict, true. But do not
forget about his strong feelings towards validity and order! This is a
person that works extremely efficiently in the industrial sphere, a
person whom decisively takes the opportunity to fulfill his commitments.
Likewise LSI will shy away from a creative role, where imagination and
the ability to think in a non standard manner is integral.

**Summary of Functions:**

1.  Men of structure, which he attempts to find, incorporate himself in, follow, and perfect by the creation of rules, instructions and norms. He loves to collect things. Know how to work on large tasks, prefers to prioritize the most important thing and work in detail, then can move on.
2.  Hes goal-directed and adheres to order and discipline, requires the same from others. This fact leads him to pursue a place as high as possible in the social structure fit for him. Is capable and loves to create comfort in his surroundings. An aesthete, he is oriented well in regards to his own health.
3.  Finds it difficult to evaluate prospects in development and production, and the potential possibilities in others. He doesn't love spontaneity, prefers the steady and systematic course of events.
4.  Adheres to the proper mode of behavior, to the norms established in society, he considers it necessary to observe traditions. Conceals his emotions, prefers not to demonstrate his moods, but it sometimes occurs that his feelings get out of control.

**Professional Assessment:**

LSI is irreplaceable where the precise observance of rules,
instructions, and technological norms is required. The ideal worker in
manual labor, in the office, bookkeeping, traffic control service
Successfully realizes self in mathematics, programming and publishing
work. Also in military service, where the precise army structure of
subordination is established.

`Discuss this profile on a
forum <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/37488-Article-ISTj-description-by-Filatova>`__

.. _SEE-Filatova:

SEE (Napoleon)
--------------

**Sensory-Ethical Extrovert**

**SEE  ESFp  Napoleon (Leader)**

The SEE is characterized by the drive to expand his influence, by the
desire of authority and glory. In order to realize these goals it is
necessary to learn how to control people, by manipulating their
weaknesses and avoiding their strengths so as to never be conquered.

**Description of the Strong Functions:**

**Se  Program function.** A strong individual. Irrepressibly he
approaches his goals and, at any costs, tries to reach them. Only
success, only victory!

SEE  always the leader, ambitious and confident. Naturally proves to be
the center of attention in any group. The desire, without fail, to lead,
to control; leads to rivalries, competition with other aspirants.
However, SEE deftly senses the nuances in his relations, wonderfully
senses the moods of others towards him. If someone, whom he must deal
with, is capable of holding him at a distance, of resisting him, SEE
will not bother with him, but if, and when, he feels slack he can press
and become unceremonious. Will not seek conflict without reason. Can act
diplomatic and insinuating in order to achieve objectives. But if
conflict arises he can express himself directly, unambiguously.

Always, and in everything, SEE tries to display his advantages to
others. Should he suffer injustice he will find a way to turn it around,
presenting himself to others so as not to lose face, even conversely to
appear the victor. He never acknowledges his injuries.

SEE tends not to get lost in the difficult situation; in such cases he
rather reacts with more strength, mobilizing to surmount the difficulty.

Energetic and noisy, he creates the impression that he is occupying as
much space as possible.

SEE noticeably develops the shadow function of the extroverted sense of
sensations (Se), especially when viewed from the exterior. SEE loves
bright, garish clothing; he prefers to appear from better to
extravagant rather than everyday and gray. It pleases him to be
noticed, to garner the attention of others.

**Fi  Creative function.** SEE magnificently manipulates people by
their moods and desires. He loves to be the center of attention, to
fascinate others with his ideas. He easily provokes quarrels but just as
easily reconciles them, as if playing; pulling the strings. It is
important for him to preserve the good opinion of other towards him, not
to let himself fall, to stress his talent and exclusiveness. Hes a
great actor and can manifest outstanding diplomatic inclinations, well
cultured.

Sensing well the moods of others, SEE can support a comrade through a
difficult moment; manifest his participation, his sympathy. By being
naturally volitional and cheerful he impels other to act, not to fall
apart or whine.

The SEE  men with bright and intense emotional range  from angry
indignation to noisy enthusiasm. He thus always finds himself included
in the emotional situation, he is ready to act: to help, to sympathize,
to fight, to condemn, - and no matter how he expresses his relation to
that occurring he is always absolutely confident in the correctness of
his sentence.

With the opposite sex he readily displays initiative. Though to suffer
rejection may be tragic he knows to move on.

Strong excitability and emotionalism give rise to increased sexuality.
Especially in the younger years it is difficult to settle down.

SEE is prone to jealousy, may frequently suspect partner of treason, and
does not pardon innocent flirtation.

Bright emotionalism also develops in the love of arts; SEE especially
loves music and singing. Frequently he has some of his own music,
demonstrates to all his talent and ability.

**Description of the Weak Functions:**

Ti  Vulnerable function. The weakness of this function is developed in
the fact that activities for the SEE frequently carry a chaotic nature;
in his behaviour there is no systematic pattern of character.

Even if SEE possesses a heavy stock of knowledge, he is not always able
to sufficiently make use of it; his emotionalism frequently re-weighs
logic. His erudition manifests itself in sudden flashes but he never
keeps on one topic for long. An extroverted sensory type, his need for
external activity frequently manifests itself in uncontrollable motor
activity. Thus he may be prone to acting before thinking.

Understanding that logic is not his strongest quality, SEE compensates
for this in his business activities by placing a greater role in his
personal contacts and connections. He attempts to work out the definite
stereotypes of behaviour in different situations so as to not be caught
unprepared.

For SEE it is very important that the result of his work be visible and
tangible. He wishes to obtain a return for his efforts. This may be
exemplified through community acknowledgement (i.e. social status)
and/or material evidence of acknowledgment (i.e. apartment, car, the
latest gadget, the most up-to-date, most elegant, prestigious fashions)

**Ne  Role function.** Since the SEE focuses all his attention on the
sensory area, he does well in interpreting the external manifestations
of people, events and things, but cannot understand their secret
meaning. He senses well, but badly comprehends in-depth. For this reason
he finds it difficult to correctly evaluate others, his surroundings,
and even himself; finds it difficult to find his true place in life.
Nevertheless SEE will try to develop the role of a sensitive and
attentive man, capable of correctly comprehending the current situation.

He also finds it difficult, in view of the weakness of the intuition of
time, to precisely plan activities beforehand. In such regards hes apt
to become impatient, finds it difficult to wait for something if he
feels he needs it now.

**SEE at Work and in the Home:**

When holding an executive position SEE maximally uses his strong traits:
his active nature and ability to manipulate others. He always attempts
to achieve the goal presented; in this case he can act by means of
volitional pressure, and by the temptation of the forthcoming profit. He
is best at succeeding at tasks with a tactical nature  he rapidly
orients himself in the situation, easily varies his methods of
operation, but at the same time poorly visualizes the distant prospect.

He heavily suffers, and thus negatively reacts to, criticisms from
others, especially if the discussion deals with his weak logical
ability, randomness of activities and ill-considered nature of
decisions. Sometimes the SEE will seek to get rid of the coworker whom,
to him, is disposed towards excessive criticism.

If he leads a small group his bustling style of leadership can lead to
strained relations. SEE proves much more useful, in a leadership role,
in a larger scale enterprise, especially if the group contains
reasonable and farsighted members, capable of logically influencing him,
of smoothing out the spontaneity of his activities from a distance.

In the family SEE, as a rule, acts as the leader/dictator, he decides
who must do something and what must be done at the given moment. Family
holidays awaken his enthusiasm, which sometimes finds its way to the
workplace where his desk is always cramped with the current
entertainments. He loves knowing how to prepare well for such occasions,
loves good food.

He relates with zeal not only to himself but also to members of his
family: they are all the best, the brightest, the most capable; no one
can be compared with them in their multiple talents.

SEE usually loves animals/pets; takes them in as members of the family.

**Summary of Functions:**

1. The energetic, strong individual. Irrepressibly approaches a goal and tries to reach it at any cost. Strong volitional qualities. Knows how to care about own health and the health of close ones. Aesthetics in the home, food; all of this proceeds from the general principles of healthy worthwhileness.
2. He separates people into his friends and strangers, highest and lowest, attempts to occupy as high a spot as possible on the vertical hierarchy. Knows how to make contact with others, easily can manipulate people in order to attain a goal.
3. System, structure, objective laws  these are areas in which the SEE struggles. Finds it difficult to think deeply and thoroughly about a problem. Being very energetic, now and then acts in a chaotic, confused manner.
4. Attempts to play the role of someone capable of penetrating into the essence of an occurrence, but frequently overestimates ability to do so. Prone to impulsive action, will not give self up to dreams and fantasies for extended periods of time, thus does not often try to comprehend the distant prospects  is too strongly tied to the genuine reality.

**Profession Assessment:**

SEE performs admirably in professions that require contact with people
at all levels: political activity, military service (in as high a rank
as possible), jurisprudence, artistic activity, teaching, commerce, and
secretarial work. People of this psycho-type should be warned against
the selection of scientific activity, especially in regards to
theoretical disciplines.

`Discuss this profile on a
forum <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/37481-Article-ESFp-description-by-Filatova>`__

.. _ILI-Filatova:

ILI (Balzac)
------------

**Intuitive-Logical Introvert**

**ILI  INTp  Balzac (Critic)**

The orientation of ego block of ILI: the world in infinite, fluid,
manifold, it's state is continuously changing. The goal of man is to
find his place in the continuous row of events, to realize his
potential. To act makes sense only when the optimal moment for applying
efforts has been found and set.

**Descriptions of the Strong Functions:**

**Ni  Program function.** The consciousness of any introvert is always
working with internally constructed imaginary models. The external world
for him only serves as a starting stage for developing internal imagery.
Since the leading function of ILI is intuition of time, it allows him to
successfully model evolution of processes in time.

The consciousness of ILI easily encompasses any periods in time and
perceives the world comprehensively and systematically, and all the
processes occurring within it dynamically. His ability to freely
traverse the time axis allows him to see distant prospects, and
consequently few can match him in the realm of strategic forecasts.

ILI's imagination perceives the world in dynamic flow  within it
everything is in motion, everything interacts, people work, take some
actions, which are based on some motivations. In consciousness of ILI, a
model of people's behavior arises, examining which he can predict the
future consequence of actions that a person undertakes in the present.
Possessing the gift of foresight, he often already knows what a person
is going to say or do in a certain situation  frequently, it seems to
him that he knows and sees straight through everything (and in a certain
sense, this is true).

The ability to see the essence of a problem and to envision the eventual
result seems insightful, such that ILI may earn the reputation of a wise
and far-sighted person or a philosopher. As a rule, his prognoses are
colored by skepticism  he prefers to voice warnings to admonish those
around him from taking unnecessary steps and acting rashly. He himself
is cautious  will repeatedly and scrupulously check everything before
doing anything. He calls on others to do the same, making critical
remarks of those whose statements and actions are made too hastily and
lightly and have not been carefully thought through.

One of the main driving forces of ILI is a sense of his own worth, and
by association  self-assertion. Frequently he feels good from observing
that others are incompetent at something, which comes easily and
naturally to him. Many of his mental abilities are indeed high. People
of this type often have an immaculate memory. Using this advantage, he
identifies the source of a question and comprehends all the aspects of
the problem, building a massive foundation for his erudition. It is
precisely among this sociotype that one can meet individuals who possess
an almost encyclopedic knowledge. However, a measure of conservatism is
also characteristic of them. This is expressed in their distrust of
anything new, untested and unproven, when it is not clear where it will
lead.

His inclination to assert himself, to feel himself significant, does no
mean that he will attempt to achieve a high position or status in
society. Rather his tendency is to elevate himself as high as possible
in certain fields of knowledge, and to go as deep as possible in his
perceptiveness, to feel his superiority to others in exactly this (Ni).

**Te  Implementation of the program.** ILI surveys the the dynamics of
ongoing events and processes and aims is to guide these dynamics towards
their practical realization. After correctly predicting the outcome, he
awaits the "right moment" to act and will not do anything until such a
moment arrives (he doesn't like undertaking unnecessary action). When he
perceives a real prospect, he moves to act.

His perception is characterized by wholesomeness, which leads ILI to
perceive multiple variations in solving the same problem. Thus, now and
again, he finds it difficult to prioritize one thing over another. He
does not like being hurried, but waits for a problem to "ripen" and its
resolution will be incorporated into the general picture of things,
which is already present in his imagination. Certain reservation is
characteristic of him; he tries to leave enough room for possible
corrective actions to be taken in the future.

ILI's fitness for work is exceptionally selective. If he finds a proper
job or profession, he can display remarkable energy and fantastic
productivity. In his life there can also be a continuum of sleepless
nights and states of extreme anxiety and stress, which last for months
or even years. The nature of his work style is usually solid and
pedantic.

If he has failed to find the right job or profession, then his
skepticism begins to take the upper hand: "Why is all of this necessary?
Nothing good will come of this" He cannot even force himself to meet
the bare minimum expectations, which may lead to serious repercussions
such as being dismissed from work or dropping out of school or
university. In such cases, he feels helpless, lacking a "spine"  the
resolve to do anything  as his irrationality makes it difficult for him
to meet even the minimum requirements for his survival.

**Description of the Weak Functions:**

**Fe  Painful function.** Poorly orientating in emotions, ILI prefers
to hide his feelings. However, if he is strongly afflicted by something,
his emotionality can literally pour out as he loses control of himself.
In order to prevent such situations from happening, ILI prefers to
maintain a large psychological distance with others. Familiarity
irritates him  he is a proponent of a calm and respectable manner of
interaction.

ILI often compensates for his lack of emotional involvement in
interaction with others by playing intellectual games. Very often
interaction for him becomes similar to a game of chess or checkers,
where the goal is to show what he is capable of, and to demonstrate
another person's incompetence. ILI is a master of games  he loves to
play with people and events.

He finds true enjoyment from realizing his intellectual superiority over
others and will not let an opportunity pass where he can directly or
indirectly express this. If his upbringing conflicts with such displays
and expression, he will, nonetheless, satisfy his silent vanity by other
methods.

In communication with those few people, whom he trusts, ILI can be open
and sincere. Sometimes he displays kindness and generosity to a
surprising degree  gives away his belonging, which are essential to
him. However, this is often because he feels indifferent to them
(sensing is his weak function).

**Si  Role function.** In all matters regarding questions of health,
aesthetics, lifestyle, and clothing, ILI appears modest and does not go
beyond what is needed. Poorly discerning in such matters, he prefers to
obtain such information from capable (in his opinion) sources. Sometimes
in such spheres  for example, his home life  he is so helpless, that
he incites concern in others and requires real care. If he falls ill, he
will try to observe physician's instructions and scrupulously follow
prescribed regimen in diet and medicine, etc.

The volitional qualities of people of this type manifest a bi-polar
nature: some individuals display an enviable sense of purpose,
stubbornness and perseverance, while others, to the contrary,
demonstrate complete inertia and paralysis of their will. This can also
be seen in actions of a specific person: in some cases he manifests
excessive drive, in others compete passivity. In conclusion, it must be
said that for ILI finding a proper occupation and self-realization are
especially important, otherwise his innate talents will remain
undeveloped and be utterly wasted.

**ILI at Work and at Home:**

Although ILI does not obviously strive to be a leader, his latent vanity
is satisfied if he becomes one, for he considers himself worthy to be a
head of a laboratory, an institute or a university  even the ministry
of state. This assurance is sometimes valid, depending on the
individual, and is supported by his ability to think of long-term
consequences and outcomes, which is undoubtedly the most important
quality for a manager of any level.

With subordinates ILI prefers a respectful style of interaction. He is
able to distinguish the abilities and professional potential of one
coworker over the other and put such knowledge to use. However, he is
not always confident in entrusting subordinates with work, but is
inclined to check over everything. Neither is he easily reconciled with
the fact that someone else can do the job better than him.

ILI is often a serial monogamist and a good family man. He prefers not
to quarrel with family members, if possible get away from conflicts,
even if his partner shows intolerance. However, in critical situations
he is capable of "exploding", losing control of himself, entering a
state of literal madness  in such times he can smash furniture and
dishes resorting to physical violence.

He is caring of his children and especially cares about their education.
He readily invests his efforts and money. In questions of lifestyle and
health, he fully depends on his significant other.

**Summary of Functions:**

1.  Dynamically comprehends all worldly processes. Ability to traverse the time axis permits them to see distant prospects. Skeptical and critical. When confronted by a situation they know how to select from a set of variants, oriented towards the distant prospects.
2.  Fitness for work is exceptionally selective. If they find an appropriate job they work without tiring, indeed are difficult to stop. Knows how to find the principal team needed to unwind a chain of events. A meticulous and scrupulous pedant, knows how to separate information within a system.
3.  Tries not to act emotionally since he is not confident that he can always control his feelings. When he does lose control his behavior towards others, and himself, is unpredictable. With close people prefers to associate at a close psychological distance, tries to be polite, to develop relations over time; however, does not always succeed for is capable of offending others without noticing.
4.  He feels well in a comfortable and cozy home but is unwilling to spend the necessary time and resources to create such himself and so prefers if another would take this responsibility. Sometimes difficult to mobilize himself to carry out necessary activities, appears as if paralyzed, and in such cases external interference proves useful in helping him to "unwind".

**Profession Assessment:**

ILI is wonderfully at home anywhere where strategic forecasts are
required  in policy, finances, science, military research. Can lead a
group of any scale, particularly with the assistance of a sensory type.
Also develop a taste toward humanitarian areas  i.e. philosophy, art.

`Discuss this profile on a
forum <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/37465-Article-INTp-description-by-Filatova>`__

.. _LIE-Filatova:

LIE (Jack London)
-----------------

**Logical-Intuitive Extrovert**

**LIE  ENTj  Jack London (Entrepreneur)**

To the LIE life is inconceivable without reasonably directed work. In
order to obtain a good result he must operate effectively and maybe even
take risks, using time to the maximum benefit.

**Description of the Strong Functions:**

**Te  Program function.** A persons natural state should revolve
around his work activity, and LIE, as much as possible, corresponds to
this principle. He is the strong worker, works willingly with a sharp
understanding and comprehension of each action; therefore he makes
everything productively, effectively and with great pleasure.

LIE  one of the most dynamic psycho-types, he is very active, possesses
fast reactions and takes the initiative. He capably calculates his
actions so as to be economical. Being engaged in industrial activity he
easily translates his thoughts into reality, it is better to put waste
to use than to throw it out. Can conceptualize the optimum method of
making use of space so that no room is wasted. Thus he precisely
comprehends which task is major and which is minor. He attempts to
determine the precise order of his preferences: so that minor trifles
should not prevent him from carrying out what is deemed the most
important task/goal. He applies these same abilities in the realms of
his hobbies: should he find something to be impossibly immense hes able
to reasonably limit himself.

**Ni  Creative function.** In order to work rationally it is especially
important to plan beforehand so as not to waste any time in vain. A
combination of practicality and romanticism is noticeably characteristic
in LIE.

Introverted intuition manifests itself in his irrepressible imagination,
the ability to consciously combine events and facts, within his mind,
which are incompatible with reality. Possessing a rich imagination
allows LIE to habitually view things from a different, unexpected angle.
Inventors and rationalizers are often representative of this
psycho-type. Such a person can foresee the optimum solution in deciding
how to solve a problem; can often find a way out of unusual situations.

He very much enjoys experimenting with mental and practical activities.
He approaches situations as if playing a game, which itself is more
important than the task in which hes engaged. Though something may be
more interesting than convenient, he will try to combine the two
whenever such is possible.

His extroverted intuition is also rather active, he is attracted to
novelty in various different areas  mechanics, electronics, sports, new
ways of learning Thus he makes sure that these activities are not
assumed in vain: tries to apply, whenever possible, novel ideas to a
field of interest. It occurs that even from the unprofitable situations,
that he cannot avoid, he will nonetheless manage to benefit.

The aspiration to allocate resources, in time, in the most rational way
is characteristic of LIE. He constantly analyzes everything, which has
occurred, predicts relations with different people, and tries to predict
the consequences of his actions. Each missed opportunity is felt sharply
by him: he applies his best efforts to insure such does not repeat
itself again.

His ability to sense the slightest change in a situation, his fast
reactions, his initiative, and his practicality, combined with his
creative vein, make him a good businessman and manager. He is able to be
prudent and economical in his means, but also to take risks. However, it
should be noted that risks, for him, are always thought over and
calculated in advance.

Description of Weak Functions:

**Si  Vulnerable function.** LIE is not confident in all that concerns
his state of health, aesthetics, and household convenience. It occurs
that even in these areas he tries to use his imagination and initiativequalities that serve him so well in practical and industrial
activities. But very quickly he sees that his activities in these areas
are met with bewilderment, at times even with sneers. Such reactions are
experienced painfully. He makes note of what those that criticize him
say, those sad and boring people, and also notes their inadequacies.
However, he nevertheless begins to be cautious in exercising his
creativity here and instead adheres to whats deemed acceptable by
society: he buys mass-produced furniture, wears standard clothing
(typically sports wear), and, in regards to health, simply prefers
conducting a healthy mode of living, avoiding, whenever possible, having
to see the doctor.

The sensory functions vulnerability also generates another feature in
LIEs character: the tendency to self-affirmation. He wants to prove to
himself, and those surrounding, that he has the strength, endurance and
skill to overcome barriers. Therefore he loves travel and sports
especially such kinds as mountaineering, tourism, and slalom skiing. His
aspiration to romantic adventure is defined by his strong intuition.

**Fe  Role function.** For LIE, situations where emotions are openly
displayed seem confusing, obscure and not very interesting. He prefers
to hide his bad mood  in those rare cases when it arises. He does not
care for pessimists and whiners. In acting, with regards to this
function, he leans on the norms that are accepted by society but often
has difficulty recognizing the relevance or irrelevance of displaying
certain feelings.

Impulsiveness is not characteristic of him; he usually leaves conflicts,
as he understands that they dont benefit anybody. If he does not manage
to avoid a conflict he is capable of striking with a sharp counter blow.
It also occurs that hell play the aggressor to warn away the aggression
of another.

**LIE at Work and in the House:**

In regards to professional hierarchies LIE begins with principle of
rationality, he does not necessarily desire to hold a high post if
someone competent is already in power. If such isnt the case than, for
the sake of saving time, he finds taking the initiative easier.

As a leader hes perfectly able to solve strategic problems. He aspires
to achieve positive results in industry through the introduction of
modern technologies. If he trusts someone he will behave informally with
him or her, but will remain the true leader. Hes a supervisor of
democracy, creating the proper relations towards his subordinates is
inherent to his position. In regards to all his fellow workers, even
those at a lower position in the hierarchy, LIE aspires to treat their
concerns as equal to those of a business partner.

His relations with relatives are also painted by the aspiration of
partnership. He finds it easier to relate and agree with others on a
verbal level (through dialogue). He perceives intonations, gestures, and
vague hints poorly. He would rather that others directly tell him what
they require of him.

LIE  the good family man: the man of this psycho-type is able to give a
lot of time to his home, especially if it is necessary to make, improve
or invent something. He finds routine business boring. As well the
female LIE does not overly care for keeping order in her home, does only
what is necessary.

**Summary of Functions:**

1.  One of the most dynamic psycho-types. Works willingly with an excellent realization in regards to each activity. Prefers large-scale work. Knows how to systematize, to create an effective working system, in which all the components will be taken into consideration.
2.  Is capable of envisioning the long-term forecast. In him is combined practicality with romanticism. Inventor and innovator, the lover of drawings. Is oriented towards the distant prospect, ably selects the best options for the future and rarely makes mistakes in this.
3.  Finds it difficult to create comfort in his private life, to be orientated in his health, he prefers a healthy mode of living, and in clothing  a sport style. Lover of expeditions, overcoming of obstacles, different types of journeys. He is not inclined to force his way by direct pressure, instead will invent something new so as to create the bridge that puts him ahead of his rivals.
4.  Is poorly orientated in the emotional realm and in society intrigues, so prefers a familiar, friendly, democratic style of behaviour. He respects the norms of morals, traditions, wishes that they provide him with cues on how to properly react to others.

**Professional Assessment:**

LIE can effectively deal with scientific research work, an inventor and
innovator. Successfully realizes abilities, as owner, manager, knows how
to orient self in situations of instability. Good teacher, educator.
Also finds a place in the primary industries  operational work.

`Discuss this profile on a
forum <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/37485-Article-ENTj-description-by-Filatova>`__

.. _ESI-Filatova:

ESI (Dreiser)
-------------

**Ethical-Sensory Introvert**

**ESI  ISFj  Dreiser (Guardian)**

The orientation of main functional block of ESI: the conditions of
normal life, harmony in her personal relations, observance by her sense
of ethics and moral norms, sensitive and careful keeping and
safeguarding of historic traditions, and concrete volitional efforts and
actions aimed at defense and preservation of ESI's system of values.

**Description of the Strong Functions:**

**Fi  Program function.** As an introvert, ESI is primarily oriented at
her own directives, system of values, and motivations, for which the
external factors are only circumstantial. An ethical introvert possesses
in her consciousness an all-encompassing idea about personal and ethical
norms, about rules of coexistence, of the need to lead a particular way
of life, that, from her point of view, is the only one worthy of a
person.

Subjective ethics of relations is ESI's strongest function. She
understands, from an earliest age, what is good and what is bad. She is
a moralist - and considers it necessary to clearly formulate and firmly
observe personal criteria of behavior and moral norms. [Translator's
note: To address a common confusion: the "subjective" ethics of ESI
allows people of this type to formulate a system of values that doesn't
have to correspond to what is objectively (or socially) considered to be
appropriate, moral, and good, but instead define it independently in
accordance to own inner world, and orient by these person ethical values
with confidence - outcomes vary.]

Especially important for her are traditions and ethical systems, which,
have been accumulated by people throughout centuries. She believes that
these traditions, and also the rituals, serve as necessary reference
points capable of orienting people in any situation in life. ESI assumes
that these traditions must be kept and preserved with great care, never
transgressed, and passed on from one generation to another.

She usually adheres to the social norms of behavior and ethical
standards that are accepted in society. If she sees someone disregard
them, she may openly voice her negative relation towards that person,
because she considers herself obligated to elimina

It is generally very important to her to have someone to whom she can
dedicate herself, but, at the same time, she wants to make sure that her
efforts will be valued - otherwise she can fall into depression, or even
start a scandal. She appreciated when people are good to her, but she
also remembers evil for a long time. In regard to offenders, ESI often
takes an irreconcilable position and ties to punish them, to take
revenge.

ESIs sensitive nature also manifests in her love of art, especially of
music. Frequently she loves to play a musical instrument, with pleasure
attends concerts, and herself loves to sing.

**Se  Implementation of the program.** Her ethical program ESI brings
into into life with persistence of a volitional sensing type. However,
interacting with her at a distance, it is often difficult to recognize
the resoluteness, firmness, and dedication with which she implement her
directives into real life, because this trait is often masked by
external conformity and ability to pick up on the mood of another person
and his attitude towards what is occurring around him (Fi).

For some time the ESI tries to adjust to another person, to be tactful
and considerate, but eventually she shows her inclination to exert
willful pressuring, especially if on the path of her implementing her
principles and wishes, she encounters an obstacle. In such cases the
concealed at the first glance qualities of her character manifest
demanding, exacting, and very direct nature. She will without rest and
without getting side-tacked try to get what is hers, convinced in her
right to it. If she manages to make someone obey  she secretly feels
satisfied but does not openly show this.

Strong sensing function is also reflected in her disposition to be
industrious and practically active: ESI is hard-working, energetic,
fastidious, fair and conscientious  all of this is especially
noticeable within her family. She generally provides for and keeps many
products, arranges for additional storage units (i.e. a garage, a shed,
etc). She is careful and assiduous with her resources and money and
replenishes them in a timely manner. She is sensitive towards
wastefulness and tries to minimize it, to put everything to use, whether
it is pieces of floor panels or food leftovers.

Such thriftiness allows her, from an early age, to save up the financial
means to attain and supply for her self-sufficient existence in life,
and even acquire things that symbolize prosperity  a car, a
condominium, a country house, etc. She obtains everything through honest
hard labor, her innate resourcefulness and scrupulous economy, and not
by reckless enterprises or machinations, that often contradict her
ethical directives.

**Description of the Weak Functions:**

Ne  Painful function. While the ESI is fully aware of what is happening
right in front of her, she is poorly aware of its historical causes and
inner context.

She finds it difficult to accept the inner world of another person. Due
to which, she is usually very thorough in selecting her life partner:
she looks at him attentively, tries to check his moral qualities in
interaction, then she tries to figure out how much they correspond to
her requirements of a partner.

It often is the case that ESI underestimates herself and her positive
qualities, feels tormented by her conscience for her flaws, considers
herself insufficiently erudite or talented, or incapable. She responds
very painfully to negative remarks in her address on such matters.

**Ti  Role function.** At the beginning of any task or project, ESI
attentively collects and prepares the necessary material, carefully
thinks things over everything, but afterwards she takes action
energetically and decisively. However, the weakness of this function is
exhibited by the fact that this preparatory period consumes huge
investments of her time and energy. She don't naturally, quickly, nor
easily make rational decisions. She also finds it difficult to
objectively prioritize, to distinguish primary from the secondary: she
often does everything at once, tries to work as much as possible, and
doesn't always correlate her capabilities to her plans. Thus it often
happens that she overloads and exhausts herself by work, while not
achieving as much as she could have achieved.

**ESI at Work and at Home:**

ESI's strong sensing becomes apparent at work and in professional
sphere: her working place is usually well supplied and organized, each
instrument and object has its distinct place, nothing is ever scattered.

At work she, as a rule, is very responsible and exact, and requires the
same from others. ESI is intolerant of negligence and slacking around.
She can be harsh towards those who don't come to work in time and who do
a poor job. If there are no reasons for dissatisfaction, she chooses a
calm, soft, and considerate style of interaction.

If she finds herself in a leadership position, ESI feels great
responsibility that keeps her under constant stress and tension. ESI's
weak extraverted intuition, which is the reason for her often low
self-esteem, doesn't permit her to see the potential and possibilities
of each of her colleagues. Therefore, ESI keeps watchful and sharply
alert towards any negative actions and remarks in her own respect.

Being keenly perceptive of the relations between her colleagues, ESI
easily figures out who is the non-formal leader and with success
recruits his support. She feels more at ease in a leadership position if
she shares responsibilities with someone else.

Since ESI finds it difficult to predict events and see distant future
prospects, the majority of her attention is directed at the resolution
of current tactical issues and obstacles, which most often she
successfully resolves and eliminates. She finds it easier to work under
stable conditions. Uncertainly makes her feel nervous and hesitate
before acting, for she doesn't like taking risks. But once ESI decides
on something, she acts calmly, tenaciously, and resolutely, and follows
through with her assignments and tasks to their end.

In respect to her colleagues, she often uses persuasion and conviction
as her methods, calls to their sense of duty, conscientiousness, honesty
and holds herself calmly, with dignity, and earnestness. This is unless
she runs into someone hostile to her, in which case she can be harsh and
firm in defending her positions.

In personal relations, she is usually considerate, sensitive, sincere
and devout, capable of deep selfless feelings. But if her partner
betrays her, she often breaks off relationship immediately  she doesn't
forgive betrayal.

To protect, provide for, and care for her loved ones  in first regard
the members of her own family  is one of the imperatives of the
ethical-sensing program of ESI. Sometimes an impression arises that ESI
surrounds herself and a small circle of those dear to her with an
invisible wall. For these people  she will do anything and won't spare
herself. She literally serves them, dedicates all her strengths and
resources to this task, makes this be the meaning behind her life.

But is also happens that dedicating all her strengths to others, she
forgets to do something necessary for herself. In such cases, feelings
of dissatisfaction and irritation may accumulate inside of her, which
she could hold in for many months without showing them. The prolonged
stress and tension may lead to unexpected explosions; then ESI may begin
to suspect that others do nothing else by exploit her, may begin to
suspect that people close to her are dishonest, see in their actions
some malicious intents (-Ne - weak function). In this case the ESI must
be shown good will, kindness, patience, and willingness to meet her
needs; this will help her to restore the lost balance.

**Summary of Functions:**

1.  The moralist, considers it important to observe moral statutes, traditions and rituals are important for they help when experiencing difficulties. Very emotional but these emotions are often deeply concealed. If she feels her kindness is being taken advantage of she can unexpectedly lash out and shout.
2.  Uses external conformity to hide her inherent demands and persistence, which sooner or later will let themselves be known. Loves order and cleanliness and devotes much resources to achieving such. Proceeds from the general principle that purity guarantees health.
3.  She badly sees the concealed motives and possibilities in both events and people. Is capable of assuming illusion or slyness in others where it does not exist. Weakly forecasts the course of events, especially of distant ones. Most frequently only sees the immediate profit.
4.  Abstract theories are only dealt with, with difficulty. Conscientious, she nevertheless does not know how to make her work technologically efficient or effective. She attains successes exclusively due to her perseverance with great expenditures of time and resources.

**Professional Assessment:**

ESI is the innate worker of the social sphere. Wonderfully realizes
abilities in medicine, in any economic activity. Loves animals and
agricultural work, finds a worthy place in the military, as a teacher
and educator of young people  knows how to create good living
conditions for those under care.

`Discuss this profile on a
forum <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/37466-Article-ISFj-description-by-Filatova>`__

.. _IEE-Filatova:

IEE (Huxley)
------------

**Intuitive-Ethical Extrovert**

**IEE  ENFp  Huxley (Instigator)**

For the IEE importance is placed on whats most interesting and grippingin these they see potential possibilities and promising trends, both
in human society and in the sphere of production, and organize people
towards realizing these possibilities.

**Description of the Strong Functions:**

**Ne  Program function.** For the IEE it is most important to find, to
see, to comprehend the new possibility where there previously never was
one. Her attention is always riveted towards the unique and unusual.
Shes stimulated by new ideas and is willing to receive information from
any sources. This can lead her to unexpected scientific discoveries,
museum exhibitions, non-traditional methods of entertainment and
medicine, journeys, meeting with new people

Her interest flashes rapidly, like that of a child at the sight of a new
toy, but as soon as the object of entertainment loses its novelty she
becomes uninterested, her interest vanishes rapidly and she hurries to
be charmed by a new possibility. Because of her fresh views and openness
to new things IEE often possesses a set of abilities and talents. It
pleases her to test herself in different fields  many representatives
of this psycho-type design well, can be easily trained for sports and in
musical instruments, fascinated by psychology, theatre, cinematography,
and art. They test their abilities in the moment, write verses, and are
ingenious storytellers.

As a rule IEE is very penetrating: she can easily predict what it is
possible to expect in the future from another individual, especially if
she is sufficiently familiar with him/her. As no other she knows how to
inspire, to reveal the abilities and talents of others, to manifest
support towards others to realize themselves. In people she values
kindness, uniqueness and talent. Envy is alien to her  her creative
nature allows her to see many possible avenues worth following. Even in
old age shes always ready to learn new things.

**Fi  Creative function.** All possibilities must be made aware to
others so that they may act on them. IEE easily makes contact with
others and rapidly becomes the soul of the company. Is able to connect
with spectators and students, and is ready to play with their attention.
Her behavior is noticeably impulsive, her mood frequently varies, but
she tries to hide all of her negative experiences from others to avoid
their judgments.

IEE possesses the gift of inspiring those that surround her towards
activities, which can be considered promising and revealing in the
long-term. She finds it rather interesting to manipulate  literally to
juggle with the moods of others. Here she is an experimenter, curiously
observing the reactions of others to her emotional provocations. She
wonderfully manages the emotional sphere, she gives compliments to
others and is sincere for she is always ready to notice the positive
traits inherent in others, but she may sometimes chaff, and attempt to
tease a little this is never done with actual spite but in a playful
manner, as if its a game.

Benevolence and optimism are generally inherent in people of this
psycho-type. They are eager to offer aid, but one ought not to rely too
heavily on their promises for they are often forgetful, and easily
distracted by other people.

By wonderfully understanding the moods of people IEE knows how to deftly
avoid conflict, to extinguish such with a joke. But when the reason for
conflict aligns with her inherent interests she may get caught up in the
conflict, in such situations she acts actively and decisively.

**Description of the Weak Functions:**

**Ti  Vulnerable function.** Represents working activity and always
supposes a definite organization. By this is meant punctuality, the
function of responsibilities, instruction, regulation, the hierarchy of
subordination, accountability And these are all which serve to drive
the IEE away  any weighty framework that dictates to her to fulfill
responsibilities. Her creativity sees nothing as predetermined.
Therefore it is especially important that she find work in which her
gifts are revealed.

The nontrivial course of thoughts characteristic for many
representatives of this psycho-type may lead them to realize themselves
in scientific research work, where with ease they propose unexpected
views on problems. However, they poorly respond to manual labor and
logical analysis. Anything that requires they be thorough and systematic
in their investigations will lead them to quickly tire. They prefer to
hand these aspects of scientific work to others and instead assume the
role of generator of ideas. However, when they fail to find creative
work, in which something new can always be seen, their previously
indefatigable inquisitiveness severely weakens.

After having tried 10  15 different specialties she may prove to be
without anything, to have attained nothing in life, the entirety of her
talent gone unrealized. After completing necessary preparations in a new
project, if she sees something, which she finds more attractive, she may
throw away everything. She prefers not to plan, but to improvise; it is
dangerous to rely on her business qualities for she can get caught up in
the moment.

She doesnt respond well to templates and standards. IEE recognizes no
formal subordination, feels no piety towards authorities; this may lead
to trouble. The observations of authorities, especially if they, in her
opinion, are wrong, are answered to sharply disregarding of who they
are. It is therefore understandable that she is not at place in
conditions subordinate to strict authority.

**Se  Role function.** IEE assumes that society values daring,
decisive, volitional people, and she attempts to create about herself
the impression that she is such a person. In some cases she can actually
manifest in herself willpower, and in some situations is capable of
acting with pressure, but most frequently such pressure is not
sufficient in the long-term and her persistence proves to be
short-lived.

IEE is not too interested in the world of material things. She is not
able to keep up with it and prefers that another take charge of such
matters. She is not confident in the necessity of one purchase over
another and needs another person with which to confer. Financially shes
often negligent, her money interests her more so in terms of its
immediate use than in terms of obtaining new experiences in life.

**IEE at Work and in the Home:**

IEE does not aim for leadership positions for it is difficult for her to
control the collective at an intermediate level, where it is necessary
to observe regulations and transient functions from the top to the
bottom and from the bottom to the top. She is much better able to
manifest her abilities at the head of the whole collective. From this
office shes able to glance at the problem, to see prospects of
development in the enterprise, and to strategically solve such in a way
that proves greatly successful to the collective. Her ability to put
forth nontrivial ideas can prove to be the decisive factor in
competitive activity. However, the study of components should be charged
to those nearby, who will manage such better than she.

IEE also has the useful ability, at any rank of leadership, to arrange
cadres in a way that effectively uses the best abilities of each.
However, enforcing discipline, and the evaluation of works execution
and its quality should be charged to deputies.

Due to her ability to foresee new possibilities, and rapidly act on
such, she is irreplaceable in proprietor activity, in the organization
of new work, in the creation of advertising, in journalism in a sense
anywhere her ardor, and curiosity to the novel, works together with her
ability to establish contacts.

In relations towards representatives of intimate attraction the IEE has
a tendency towards newness and change. In the conjugal life this
position is rarely well understood by others. If her partner does not
know how to always be novel and mysterious then her love can rapidly die
out. Its helpful if her significant other possesses stability, the
patience to understand that each new entertainment will pass just as
rapidly as the one before. Otherwise it will be difficult to avoid
scandals and separation.

Domestic economical activity is completely alien to IEE. She attempts to
solve household problems with a minimum of effort, finding no pleasure
in this.

Despite the fact that IEE corresponds weakly to the family ideals of
society shes able to adapt by means of constant newness and mutability
It is not surprising that even at an elderly age she retains the ability
to charm and be charmed by others.

**Summary of Functions:**

1.  For the IEE it is most important to find and comprehend the most important and most interesting  to find, to see, to comprehend new possibilities where there previously was none. From a set of variants is capable of selecting the most controversial and promising in the long-term. Loves to dream and fantasize, can sufficiently forecast the course of events.
2.  Possesses the gift of inspiring people towards long-term promising activities. Knows how to juggle the moods and relations of those that surround her. Conceals negative moods within her so as not to suffer others judgments; but is more willing to share with friends, in this regard.
3.  Regime, duty, regulations, accountability, all disarm her. Finds it difficult to be inscribed in any framework. Works exclusively based on her mood, is better able to focus on big picture work than to be occupied by thorough study.
4.  In regards to volitional methods acts exclusively for purposes of defense. Is not very attracted to the material world, finds it difficult to keep up, is often negligent in regards to her finances.

**Professional Assessment:**

IEE's ability to foresee new possibilities is irreplaceable in
proprietorship, in the organization of new work, in advertising, in
journalism, anywhere their ardor, curiosity for novelty, can be combined
with their ability to establish contacts. Representatives of this type
may also work in the sciences, with ease proposing an unexpected view
towards a problem; some of them also work successfully as psychologists.

`Discuss this profile on a
forum <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/37482-Article-ENFp-description-by-Filatova>`__

.. _SLI-Filatova:

SLI (Gabin)
-----------

**Sensory-Logical Introvert**

**SLI  ISTp  Jean Gabin (Artisan)**

The orientation of ego block of SLI: Everything in the world must be
harmonious, proportional and balanced; the best way to achieve this is
through aesthetical, qualitative activity.

**Descriptions of the Strong Functions:**

**Si  Program function.** Represented by the sensation of harmony,
beauty and health. Everything must be balanced in the best way possible.
At the same time, beauty must be combined with usefulness: this is
applied to his work, relations with people, decoration and furnishing of
living quarters, and in the comprehensive development of a physically
healthy body.

SLI has very good memory for colors, odors, and somatic sensations; he
can easily recreate these in his mind. He may be able to recall the
taste of some food years later. In many respects, he is an aesthete.
Often representatives of this type possess developed artistic sense. His
perception is characteristically steady and contemplative, and outwardly
unemotive. He is not one of those individuals who, with sensual energy,
immediately dive into basic sensory pleasures: he prefers to leisurely
"relish" his experiences, timely distinguishing and separating the
pleasant from the unpleasant ones. The surrounding world begets in him a
broad scope of sensations to which he's very attentive. He adeptly
perceives his internal physical states, understands the abilities of his
body, and therefore, may successfully engage himself in sports  of
predominately individual types. Even if due to some life circumstances
SLI is distant from sport, nevertheless a healthy mode of life is
necessary for him, since it provides him with a general feeling of being
harmonious, sensible and balanced.

This function's manifestation is especially noticeable in SLI's exterior
appearance: he always dresses appropriately in a simple, elegant, sporty
style  his clothing is chosen primarily based on functionality and
convenience.

**Te  Implementation of the program.** In order to realize the program
of the first function, to make things more convenient, useful, and
attractive, SLI engages in practical activity. SLI indeed displays high
mastery in his work. Anything he takes on, he strives to bring to
perfection. He works thoroughly, while improving and polishing his
methods, and makes the result not only useful but also attractively
designed. He understands well the possibilities of using one material or
instrument over another, and knows precisely in which cases one will
work better than another. He studies examples of high-quality work. He
is interested in the most effective methodology. In work, prefers
unhurried manner and soundness. If necessary, he can work from early in
the morning until late at night. In such cases, he will spend effort to
create shortcuts that will make his labor more convenient or pleasant
for himself.

SLI knows how to focus on the primary objective whilst not forgetting
about the specifics. This ability is inherent to him in reading
lectures, in setting up his living space, in conducting instruction and
training. If, in his point of view, he has attained mastery in some
subject or activity, then he will change his objective: he finds it
tiresome to be occupied with the same routine work over a long period of
time. In this manner his irrationality manifests itself.

Before starting on a new project, SLI spends time making sufficient
preparations, accumulates and infers about pertinent information, gather
necessary supplies and materials. He likes to first try out different
things, to experiment, so that he better senses the possibilities of
forthcoming work.

On the one hand, he is characterized by stubbornness and perseverance,
on the other hand  has a certain measure of inertness. He may "prolong"
and "delay", until all the deadlines are near, then rapidly mobilize at
the last minute and complete his assignments or work. He will not take
up dubious work, but prefers reliability, definitiveness, certainty,
calculations rather than unsound risk.

He loves to work completely autonomously, independently, so that he
wouldn't have to adapt himself to anyone else. He is especially
irritated by illogical, unsound instructions.

**Description of the Weak Functions:**

**Fe  Painful function.** SLI prefers to conceal his emotions.
Outwardly he seems impenetrable and unemotional. This is partly due to
the fact that he is poorly capable of detecting the moods of people
around him and also he fears that showing his emotions may seem
inappropriate or ridiculous. This forces him to retain a psychological
distance. However, this distance should not be dejecting: if anyone asks
SLI for help, he most likely won't turn the person down, but will listen
and provide aid, and even sympathize with the misfortune.

However, he possesses a degree of sensitivity and sentimentality: he
will take up a common cause or work in order to demonstrate his
disposition towards people, instead of showing it with emotions.
Introspection is also not his element.

In conflict situations SLI tries to stay away from possible scandals. To
a certain point, he will be calm, steady and inert. However, if someone
suddenly invades his sacred psychological "territory", where no one is
allowed, or attempts to afflict his personal sense of value  SLI can
unexpectedly flare up and be driven into fury. In such a state, he may
lose control of himself and is even capable of striking the offender. In
regards to his emotions, just as with practical tasks, he warms up
slowly, and afterwards he cannot be quickly swayed or calmed
especially after an explosion. Here, his particular type of inertness
also applies.

**Ni  Role function.** Flights of fantasy and blurry boundlessness
such things are not characteristic of SLI. He cannot sufficiently
evaluate the long-term prospects of one task over another or accurately
predict someone's actions, and thus finds it difficult to solve
strategic problems. Sometimes he makes mistakes in judging people and is
inclined to view them in a more positive, advantageous light, and then
later feels deceived by his expectations. In his designs and assessments
of future prospects, he has to depend on his ability to make realistic
estimates rather than intuition. For additional certainty, he discusses
his plans with his colleagues, to confirm that they correspond to the
established regulations and norms, which others deem sensible.

**SLI at Work and at Home:**

As a leader SLI implements his plans with regards to aesthetics and
practicality; therefore his products and results are often of high
quality and beautiful design. However, he doesnt strive to be leader,
even if he is gifted with talents. If, nevertheless, it was necessary to
occupy a position of leadership, he will first attempt to understand who
is capable of what, as it is more rational to assign each worker to a
job that corresponds with his or her level of skill. In management SLI
adheres to the principles of the collegiality and tries to materially
stimulate his coworkers to do their work.

He finds it difficult to make prognoses about development of production
over long periods of time. He is better at resolving immediate, tactical
questions, rather than assessing long-term goals and outcomes; therefore
it is better that he leads a smaller group.

He prefers to solve conflict situations by method of compromise.
However, if the conflict touches on his fundamental principles and
values, then he will not surrender his position.

The characteristic qualities of his nature manifest most vividly in his
family life. He is a good family man, leisurely, solid and reliable. It
is very important for him to provide for his family materially: to
ensure there are sufficient supplies of food, clothing, foot wear for
all family members. He often enjoys interacting with his children,
looking after them. While children sometimes distress him, hes rarely
truly hurt. Frequently he is a good educator, restrained and reasonable.
He is inclined to take the weak under his calm and reliable protection.

Not only does he not avoid domestic tasks, but he truly enjoys them. He
himself may wonderfully and thoroughly repair the apartment, firmly and
solidly build a house, work on the vegetable-garden Only don't try to
hurry him or goad him  this irritates him greatly.

**Summary of Functions:**

1.  Principally represented by the sensation of harmony, beauty and physical state. Everything must be balanced. Knows how to create his own invisible territory, is characterized by his perseverance, which sometimes passes into the realm of obstinacy; however is not inclined to aggression.
2.  Knows how to use improvised material in obtaining practical results. Loves qualitative, scrupulous, and serial operations. Attempts to understand the general similarities in universal laws, to add details in the global scheme.
3.  Conceals his emotions, fears seeming ridiculous, retains a psychological distance. He seems steady and inert, however, is capable of unexpectedly flaring up if his sense of self-respect is threatened. Considers the observance of traditions and norms of behavior necessary and useful not due to his internal sensations but due to the pragmatic benefits.
4.  Finds it difficult to foresee the ripening of various events, is not inclined to fantasies. Does not trust information sources, must check everything himself. Finds it difficult to invent something new prefers to adapt something already known to his practical needs.

**Professional Assessment:**

Is successful in any industrial or practical activity. A master in work,
loves to work independently or in a small group, does not aim for
offices of leadership. Can prove to be a capable artist, designer,
musician. Connection with physical state and surroundings may lead to
medicine, sports, and also to professions connected with cuisine
(cooking).

`Discuss this profile on a
forum <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/37483-Article-ISTp-description-by-Filatova>`__

.. _LSE-Filatova:

LSE (Stierlitz)
---------------

**Logical-Sensory Extrovert**

**LSE  ESTj  Stierlitz (Administrator)**

To the LSE primary focus in life is in reasonably directed labor. Work
must be organized in such a way that is convenient and properly
rewarded.

**Description of the Strong Functions:**

**Te  Program function.** For the logical extrovert the reality of the
external world is above all. She is directed towards practical activity.
The sphere of production and technology interests her. She knows how to
rationally and effectively work. LSEs thinking carries a clearly
expressed practical direction. The practical possibility of designing
and choosing articles in daily life, the implementation of labor
interests

Any dispute for her is a serious argument  this is a fact. She herself
gives actual proofs to her proofs and requires that others do the same.
In beginning a task she thoroughly assembles the relevant information,
analyzes the possible variants, and only acts if the components of
everything are clear to her. This tactic permits her to act logically,
rationally and economically.

Shes irritated by incompetent directions  in such situations may
manifest sharpness or flare up. But if her opponent convincingly
substantiates his/her proofs, LSE will peacefully assume the task. Valid
laws are essential since they are integral to the concept of objective
reality and such institutions of statehood as parliaments, ministries,
law courts, penitentiaries etc. Any form of society is impossible
without valid laws, and therefore LSE relates with proper respect to
facts that are guarded by laws; she is the innate lawyer.

Her innate feeling of discipline may lead her into military educational
institutions; many excellent officers are representatives of this
psycho-type.

**Si  Creative function.** In order to assume as much qualitative
production as possible it is necessary to make labor efficient. It is
only possible to achieve this through the excellent organization of
labor, and this is constantly the aim of the LSE. She considers that
there always and everywhere must be order, at work and in the home. Any
object prepared by her hands is completed, as a rule, conscientiously
and accurately, be it a knitted blo

As a sensor, LSE is concrete in everything, however, in connection with
her rationality, which stipulates the difficulty of her switching to
another activity, this concrete style of behaviour can develop into
obstinacy. People of this psycho-type are capable of maintaining an
identical viewpoint of something over a long period of time. It is
difficult for her to disconnect from such a state of mind.

Her ability to concentrate all her resources on the work by which she is
occupied, and to be untiring and firm in such work, requires that she
relax. Relaxation for LSE is often found in sports. She prefers team
activities: football, volleyball, tourism These wonderfully combine the
ability to live in a group whilst at the same time retaining her
individuality.

She does not impose excessive requirements on reality, she is inclined
to look on things reasonably and also with optimism. Hence she meets any
anomaly, which destroys her order (i.e. disease) with full-forced
internal protest; such must not enter her life! Her entire mental system
gravitates towards sincere health and a clear logic of interrelations
with the object world.

**Descriptions of the Weak Functions:**

Ni  Vulnerable function. LSE painfully experiences any type of
uncertainty. It is desirable that everything be planned before-hand, to
precisely know what will happen tomorrow, in the week, in the month, in
the year. Uncertainty, for her, is the most severe vital problem, it
makes her nervous and she attempts to surmount it with all her
resources.

LSE is not inclined to give herself up to dreams and fantasies, she
finds it difficult to create an internal world that is not connected
with reality  her attention is always concentrated on the exterior of
things. Therefore she often doesnt realize the deeper essence of a
person or event, but makes judgments based on what she sees (i.e. in
regards to whether the man is respectable) and finds her point of view
to be sufficiently reasoned.

Her consciousness assumes no mysticism, nothing beyond that which may be
seen, touched and checked. Because of the weakness of her introverted
intuition she will never compose an intuitive forecast of events, but
will prefer to act by means of her strong logical function: thus she
will count on things but not foresee them.

Particularly, due to the weakness of intuition, LSE cannot always catch
on to the trends of development, prospects for one or another form of
production, the possibility of demand for one or another commodity. It
is therefore not surprising that she neither hurries to use innovation
in the house nor at work nor in administrative activity. May even wear
the same suit for years (though nevertheless will wear it properly and
aesthetically). In general, in regards to clothing, she is more so
guided by worthwhileness (formal fashion), does not so much love avant
garde styles.

Extroverted intuition is also not among the strong qualities of the LSE:
for example, she finds it difficult to correctly evaluate and to sense
the nature of other people, their true motives, which push them toward
one activity over another.

**Fe  Role function.** In relations with people LSE works out a
definite image, style of behaviour, which she considers adequate. By
this is meant correctness, restraint, politeness, and good breeding. Her
style, in this regard, can be considered stereotypically English in
mannerism. Usually her behaviour is subordinated to certain norms,
standards, effected by community expectations, as she understands them.
But if a situation departs from the customary framework  she is lost,
in the absence of flexibility she finds it difficult to rapidly change
her style of behaviour.

She lacks the ability to sense the emotional state another, the degree
of his/her vulnerability. Therefore LSE frequently will try to aid
others in work but avoid the manifestation of feelings. To her
significant other she finds it more easy to give a gift than to say, I
love you. If such is requested from her he may appear astonished,
feeling that her feelings are already evident.

She is sometimes prone to emotional flashes, in a difficult situation
she may suddenly explode and shout. But this flash easily passes: this
psycho-type does not characteristically accumulate stress. Nevertheless
the memory of such situations remains with her for a long time, thus now
and again she seems rancorous.

**LSE at Work and in the Home:**

Under normal conditions LSE is exact and detailed, moderately energetic,
a concrete thinker, able to cloth any idea in flesh and blood. All of
her apparent behaviour can be described by the words: adequate to the
situation. She does not necessarily strive towards authority but will
also never prove to be an outsider, assumes the situation according to
what is proper for her.

She does not torment herself with existential questions, and at the same
time is overly prone to egotism.

From all thats stated above its clear that LSE, as a professional, is
best suited for any work where concrete, operational, competent
decisions are necessary.

Her ability to work effectively, to think logically, her tendency
towards objectivity and respect for law, understanding the needs of
people, and also the ability to create comfortable working conditions
for them, make LSE suitable for advancement into offices of leadership.

Being, by nature, conservative and a supporter of tested methods, she is
much better suited towards tactics, rather than strategy, prefers
evolutionary development to jumps and risky activities.

LSE easily manages administrative work, connected with business
documentation. She is a good organizer at any scale. She is not only
capable of investigating the problems of the whole collective, but also
of the individuals within; without disregarding the needs of people. At
the same time, when she must, she knows how to be a strict leader, since
she is convinced that for the efficient use of material and human
resources a solid hand is necessary.

All the LSEs characteristics of psyche are also developed in family
life. She has a high feeling of responsibility and will even force
herself to carry the burden of an unsuccessful family. She considers her
childrens education a duty, which cannot be lifted. If in charge of the
household performs excellently, is inclined to work excessively on
domestic tasks, require that all adhere to the rules determined by her.
Fills her home with anything useful, loves to make domestic
contributions, if adequate material is available. The male LSE will not
reject helping his wife with the economy, can prepare dinner, wash the
floor, give sufficient attention to children.

In relations with other people she will not characteristically use
cunning to manipulate. In difficult situations she acts on what shes
discovered: she will obtain what she deserves!  this principle is
carried to the same degree to those around her.

In extreme situations appears volitionally, capable of withstanding the
test and of persevering with a sense of duty.

**Summary of Functions:**

1.  Aimed at practical activity. knows how to create high-quality production, prefers to work accurately and consistently, knows how to use labor efficiently. Is inclined towards a detail-oriented fundamental approach. In community life observes the conventional rules.
2.  Aims for commensurability and balance in search of general harmony. To work effectively is convenient. In life is satisfied with necessities. Frequently has photographic memory. Easily evaluates the volitional qualities of people close by, but does not attempt to suppress anyone. Behaves adequately according to the situation. Does not overly strive to lead but also wont follow.
3.  Doesnt bother self with anything that cannot be seen or touched. Fantasies are not their thing. Poorly foresees the possibilities of anything, prefers to adhere to the tried and true methods. Conservative.
4.  Weakly orientated in the sphere of emotions, in the nuances of experiences. Cannot always control feelings, is capable of exploding and shouting. Considers it necesssaryto observe the norms of behaviour and morals, adheres to the image of a restrained well-bred person, but in uncommon situations can feel lost and not know how to act.

**Profession Assessment:**

Realizes self best in any practical activity  production, construction,
medicine (surgeon); capable of becoming a good administrator at any
level, a jurist. Successfully manages in military service, in law, the
primary industries, in professional sports, a good trainer.

`Discuss this profile on a
forum <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/37484-Article-ESTj-description-by-Filatova>`__

.. _EII-Filatova:

EII (Dostoevsky)
----------------

**Ethical-Intuitive Introvert**

**EII  INFj  Dostoevsky**

The orientation of main functional block of EII: the conditions of
normal life, harmony in human relations, the observance of ethical norms
and morals, conservation of traditions. For purposes of this, EII
devotes herself to improving and perfecting ethical values, strives to
teach and cultivate moral refinement and spirituality in others, seeks
veritable qualities in people.

**Descriptions of the Strong Functions:**

**Fi  Program function.** Introverted ethics in first function
designate a person for whom the main orientation in life is making
judgments about good and evil, morals and depravity, decency and
dihonorableness. EII very acutely feels the general trends and standards
of behavior which prevail in a society or a social group. She is usually
mindful of these norms in order to not be insulting to other people.
When she first joins a new group, she holds herself back and behaves
tactfully conforming to established norms, meanwhile observing and
assessing the psychological atmosphere. Once she has absorbed the
existing atmosphere, only then she considers becoming a full-fledged
member of the community and establishes her influence in regards to its
psychological atmosphere.

When encountering people who are disadvantaged, outcast, unhappy, or
weak she experiences a desire to emotionally support them and console
them. Thus others will frequently refer to her with their troubles, and
she will listen to their grievances and confessions sometimes for hours.
She tries to sympathize, to enter their personal position, to feel their
emotional pain as if it is her own, to accept the person and give them
moral support.

EII is very sensitive and emotional, however, her introversion turns all
her experiences inward, and thus these qualities are not always
observable from the outside. Sometimes she appears as calm and
impassive, but this impression is illusory, for every event, even those
popularly deemed insignificant, leaves a trace in her soul that survives
for a long time. As a rule, she represses her anger and irritation, and
the desire to criticize others in herself.

One of the characteristic qualities of EII when she has taken offense is
the creation of a psychological barrier between herself and the
offender. In such cases, she take the position of emphatically cold
politeness and answer all questions monosyllabically. For some people
such behavior of this sociotype is difficult to endure; they'd prefer
that the EII shouts or somehow expressed her anger and indignation. It
is not an easy state for her either. However, if the offender asks for
forgiveness and shows his desire to change the situation, then this
state of offense may rapidly pass.

High emotionalism in combination with rationality frequently make the
EII to focus on some past traumatic situation; she thinks it over and
over again. In her consciousness, a center of excitation is created that
overshadows all other aspects of life when this occurs. In these cases,
she finds it difficult to focus on anything else. Mentally, again and
again, she returns to the same point; she may speak repeatedly about it,
and annoy others around her with these recollections.

**Ne  Implementation of the program.** To create harmony in life, EII
searches for people' veritable, core values. These values she often
finds in realm of ethical virtues and spirituality. Even in youth,
through her imagination, EII forms a certain ideal that she attempts to
reach. A feeling of obligation often lies at the foundation of her
program function. Thus, the smallest divergence in behavior away from
this ideal causes the EII to chastise and restrain herself. In this
journey towards self-perfection, EII can become her own worst tyrant.
This tyranny of this sense of obligation in its extreme manifestations
can even lead the EII to develop contempt for herself. It can also lead
her to feel contemptuous and critical of others, when their behavior
fails to correspond with her ideal of decency and ethical values. This
sort of maximalism, characteristic of EII in her youth, can lead to
confrontations and conflicts with her peers, which weigh heavily upon
her and are very trying for her.

Since her ethical ideal and norms, that she feels are compulsory to
strive for, tend to be extremely high and difficult to live up to, she
may gradually develop an increasing and continuous feeling of shame
before everyone for her failings. Due to this feeling, with great
difficulty does she assert herself and protect her rights. She considers
that if she has failed in something  it is punishment for her mistakes.
This sense of guilt can accompany the EII throughout her entire life.

She has little interest in career advancement and material values as
main goals for her existence. The main thing for her is to find her
purpose, to make something of her life before it passes by, to realize
her innate abilities and talents. For the ideas that EII advocates, she
is willing to go to the "executioners bloc". In psychologically extreme
situations, she does not care how others evaluate and judge her, because
her own inner trials are the most severe ones. However, in ordinary
situations EII prefers to avoid conflicts, assuming that kindness and
decency are the best ways of resolving any misunderstandings.

**Descriptions of the Weak Functions:**

**Se  Painful function.** Witnessing instances of physical violence and
application of force is usually unpleasant for the EII. She develops a
negative gut reaction in response to physical punishments, abuse, and
conflict, especially if these lead to someone's death, sometimes even if
these are merely representations on television. Such spectacles incite
in EII the desire to put an end to violence. Her protest becomes more
vivid and sharp when she sees this happening in real life, especially if
the abuse and punishment is directed at children.

EII considers that each person should aim for betterment,
self-improvement and self-erudition, and harshness with which she
applies this to herself is often unrealistic and inadequate for
ordinary, real life. In this, the vulnerability of her weak sensing
functions manifests itself. It should be noted that on vulnerable
function, the person's reactions do not correspond to the circumstances
she can be both unjustifiably strong and too weak.

The EII is very sensitive to authoritative and overbearing notes in her
address. Frequently she works haplessly at tasks due to her
underdeveloped business logic. If, in addition to this, she is forced to
do more, she interprets this as the underestimation of her diligence and
may simply discontinue working, while an appeal to her feeling of
responsibility can for long time keep her in the state of work activity.

The orientation towards the ideal, constant work on herself from one
side, and the difficulty of emotional recharge from another, make the
EII eventually feel tired of herself. This often lends to disorders of
her nervous system. Contact with nature greatly assists her in her
struggle to relax; instinctively she strives for a healthy mode of life.

In resolving problems that have to do with housekeeping, EII tends to be
inefficient. To purchase quality food, to adequately suture a piece of
clothing, to do laundry  on all of these she resolves expanding too
much effort than is necessary. If it was up to her to dictate her life,
she would wish to not have to deal with the chores. Yet the EII never
ceases in spending too much time and energy on each task. She feels that
she must maintain cleanliness and order, because she cannot live in
disorder and she also considers it shameful to allow others to witness
disorder in her living space. The absence of money greatly alarms and
suppresses her, if this occurs, because she does not feel confident in
her ability to obtain resources when they are exhausted. Thus she saves
and strives to always have money around, just in case "for the rainy
day". Weakness in sensing also manifests in her difficulty understanding
whether some thing will be needed in future or not. Thus, she is prone
to hoarding and keeping things for years, which most other people would
have thrown out long time ago.

**Ti  Role function.** EII thinks over all her actions beforehand,
defining concrete goals or imperatives that are of primary importance to
reach. This approach does not always succeed due to her emotionalism
which frequently pushes or pulls her away the original direction she
planned to follow. Nevertheless she tries to organize her activity into
a specific system, bring about order, which requires vast efforts from
her.

The normative nature of this function in EII is especially clearly seen
in how ardently this sociotype abides by the laws and regulations. She
follows exactly the official norms and regulations that are endorsed in
her society.

Trying to work as conscientiously as possible, EII doesn't always do so
effectively. Thus she wastes much of her time in an unproductive
fashion. She sometimes compensates for this by working from dawn to
dawn. She finds it difficult to bind her workday within a reasonable
framework: there always seems to be something that is unfinished.
Frequently, she wants to realize herself in that which doesn't work out
for her. As a consequence of her efforts at self-improvement, she
sometimes wholly devotes herself to work, which contradicts her nature,
but the feeling of responsibility exceeds her other needs.

**EII at Work and at Home:**

If the EII finds herself in a leadership position, the burden of
responsibility not only for herself but also for her coworkers weigh
heavily on her and present a difficult challenge. She deeply feels any
mistake, any mishap, trying at best of her abilities to complete the
assigned work. Occupying a position of management, the EII is able to
conflict with inconsiderate and shirking subordinates, or even with
higher authorities, if she senses that the interests of her collective
are being unfairly infringed or disregarded. In both cases, at the
forefront is not her personal interest but the feeling of responsibility
for her project and her workgroup.

In relation with subordinates the EII prefers to keep honest  more
often will deny something than make a promise that she cannot fulfill.
For her an ideal situation is when her subordinates also like minded
people who share in her ideas, with whom EII can work together towards a
common cause. She evaluates people, not according to what position they
occupy, but whether they have personal qualities which correspond to her
ethical standards.

Since warm, friendly relations, trust, an atmosphere of love and mutual
understanding, are the main program for EII, a large part of her life is
her family, where, in ideal, she hopes to realize this program.
Unfortunately, relations frequently prove to be distant from the ideal,
and this circumstance is the most traumatic for EII, who is very
sensitive from one side, but externally restrained from another.

EII rarely considers cheating, not because she fears her partner finding
out, but because it contradicts with her ethical norms. Even if her
relations with her spouse are not great, she will all the same try to
maintain benevolence and warmth in the relationship; it happens that EII
will sacrifice herself for the sake of her children.

**Summary of Functions:**

1.  The main interest of EII is focused on the moral norms of behavior, considers it necessary to listen to all whom require their sympathy and help. Very emotional but believes that one ought not to concentrate just on the bad things, but to seek the positive sides of life.
2.  Possesses an excellent eye for promising long-range opportunities; knows how to manipulate variants and select the most promising one. Prefers methodical activities, is frequently disturbed by the future.
3.  Relates poorly to anything involving violence. While on one hand they resist external pressures, on the other theyre prone to tyrannize themselves internally. Find it difficult to efficiently complete household tasks, organize their budget, and purchase necessary things.
4.  Subordinate themselves to a system of order so long as not theyre not forced. Does not develop interest in theories of an abstract nature. Not always capable of organizing work efficiently, spends much time ineffectively spending resources, capable of overworking in order to make up for this.

**Professional Assessment:**

Their abilities can be well applied within the spheres of spiritual
knowledge, enlightenment and religion. Can also teach, the EII feels a
particular propensity towards psychology. Many representatives of this
psycho-type realize themselves in art, but only if not related to
performing in front of a large audience; also can successfully teach
humanities/art.

`Discuss this profile on a
forum <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/37489-Article-INFj-description-by-Filatova>`_
