Socionics Type Profiles by T. Prokofieva and M. Kuzmina
===========================================================

Taken from the series of articles "Psychology in the New Era", that were published in application to the newspaper "September 1st  The School Psychologist" by :doc:`Tatyana Prokofieva <prokofyeva>` and Marina Kuzmina.

`Original article. <http://socionics.ru/types/2009-01-09-00-35-45>`__

Introduction
------------

Dear readers, we suggest taking a closer look at socionic types. We will
be considering four functions of each type in this article: two strong
functions and two weak ones. This will let us to concisely describe the
advantages and drawbacks of each type.

.. _ILE-Prokofieva:

ILE, ENTp (Ne,Ti)
-----------------

**Intuitive-logical extraverts (ILE)** in their essence are researchers
and inventors. They study not only what they need to study, but also
"everything that's interesting", from mechanical and computer theories
to butterflies and caterpillars. There is nothing that the ILE likes
better than to read about something new, mysterious, and captivating.
With this, the ILE aims to immediately apply acquired knowledge to
practice, but doesn't concern much with getting real profits from his
discoveries. Due to strong intuition (channel 1) and logic (channel 2)
representatives of this type are capable of making way through great
volumes of literature on a chosen topic in the shortest period of time,
so to say, of grasping the informational immensity of this world and
paving the way for all those who will come after them. Their theories
and methods are often beyond ordinary, which can result in upheavals of
traditional views and systems.

The main drawback of ILEs is their tendency to defend their ideals (weak
volitional sensing). Decency - is the quality most often idealized by
them. With such idealistic expectations and interpretations of people's
actions, it is often difficult for ILEs to see and relate to life and
people as they truly are. Their irreconcilable attitude towards
infringements on their honor, dignity, and freedom often push them into
numerous "duels" and arguments. Sometimes they fight not with the actual
existing enemies, but "windmills" that they have conjured in their mind.
With almost every insight, the ILE tries to share his thoughts with
people around him, not thinking of whether it is the right time and
place for this (weak ethics of relations). In addition, the ILE is not
always ready to listen out a person or their argument contestant until
the end, and often interrupts them. For this reason, representatives of
this type are sometimes seen as being excessively brazen and
self-assured.

.. _SEI-Prokofieva:

SEI, ISFp (Si,Fe)
-----------------

**Sensing-ethical introvert (SEI)** may be called a master of agreements
and compromises. His life's creed lies in possibility to fully enjoy his
life while not interfering with other people doing the same. As a rule,
representatives of this type have well set up homes where they like to
relax with their heart and soul, as well as physically (sensorics of
sensing as base function). In their homes there are many convenient
things. Everything is coordinated and carefully thought out beforehand.
Representatives of this type are innate designers and image creators.
This is because they feel color, form, and size very sensitively.
Talking and socializing with his friends, the SEI often becomes the life
and soul of the company, the joker and the leader of the social
proceedings (ethics of emotions as creative function). By telling an
entertaining story, quip, or anecdote the SEI can make even a gloomy
person become sympathetic towards him.

SEI's drawback lies in his weak ability to make important strategic
decisions. The SEI often doesn't have enough perseverance, persistence,
and farsightedness to undertake serious projects or work. The SEI lives
by the day, thus arriving at any long-term conclusions for the future is
especially difficult for him (intuition of time and logic of actions are
weak functions). Another negative characteristic that has been noticed
with this type: the SEI wastes too much time on minor and unimportant
activities.

.. _ESE-Prokofieva:

ESE, ESFj (Fe,Si)
-----------------

**Ethical-sensing extravert (ESE)** is an incorrigible optimist, who
tries to always and everywhere keep up his spirit and good mood under
any circumstances. The ESE loves and enjoys life, and can always spot
something good in a negative situation. Representatives of this type
enjoy spending time outdoors, in the heart of nature, participating in
hikes and picnics with friends in open air. They are often interested by
some ideas. In contrast to several other personality types, the ESE can
spend a lot of time on the phone, discussing events, current news,
weather, or other people's problems. The ESE is a life-loving optimist
who dislikes gloominess and lack of activity. They can encourage even
the most sullen and unsociable person to join for a trip to a forest or
a desert, for example. To enjoy life is ESE's main credo. ESEs realize
themselves well in fields of advertisement and sales, they can sell the
most slow-moving products to the most fastidious client. With this, they
often sell not for the sake of money but out of principle.

ESE's main drawback is their lack of punctuality. They can be late and
fail to do promised things in time not because they didn't want to, but
because it's hard for them to adequately make plans. Their weak logical
function does not allow them to differentiate between important and
secondary matters. All matters thus seem to be of about equal importance
to them. This results in incoherence, disorganization, and important
tasks being left behind without needed attention. ESE's weak function of
intuition of time does not allow this type to project and anticipate
possible future events. To bring their next project into realization,
the ESE makes numerous inquiries and involves a great number of
contacts. However, without adequate planning, their irrepressible energy
often gets wasted on trifles, and when things come to an important stage
the ESE already has no strength and patience left to bring matters to a
close.

.. _LII-Prokofieva:

LII, INTj (Ti,Ne)
-----------------

**Logical-intuitive introvert (LII)** tries to see and create from
everything a system of some core level natural laws and patterns. As a
rule, these people are erudite, have many interests and much knowledge,
but don't like to advertise this fact and be in the center of attention.
In their essence, they are precise and pedantic, not only in the way of
thinking but also in how they relate to the world around them. You will
scarcely meet a person believing in miracles and trusting in luck among
representatives of this type. Having set a goal, the LII relies on his
or her own diligence and inner organization to do their work.
Consistency, reliability, ability to stick to their word  all of these
are typical of representatives of this type.

LII's deficiency is weak ethics of relations, which sometimes results in
uncertainty and sadness in emotional evaluations of other people. This
becomes especially evident in unfamiliar to the LII circumstances.
Watching others, the LII tries to understand what is accepted in this
company, what is favored, and what is rejected. But the LII cannot
always adapt to other people and to new social situations. He may be
cheerful or sullen out of place. Due to LII's weakness in
differentiating emotional nuances, representatives of this type often
see people in black and white colors: good or bad, kind or unkind,
friend or foe. LIIs are also sometimes viewed as stubborn and hard to
persuade (the function of volitional sensing is hypertrophied). They
cannot stand untruth and falsity, and can be very firm and solid like a
rock in matters of principle to them.

.. _SLE-Prokofieva:

SLE, ESTp (Se,Ti)
-----------------

**Sensing-logical extraverts (SLEs)** don't dwell in the clouds and
don't dream lying on a sofa about things that could have been if  These
are people of realistic, concrete actions. They can be characterized as
ambitious, self-willed, and purposeful people. These are born leaders
and administrators capable of taking responsibility for making decisions
on important matters. They appreciate logic and supporting
argumentation. Irrationality of type SLE manifests in the fact that his
activity levels often depend on his own state or mood. If the SLE didn't
"get up from the wrong side of the bed" in the morning, he can agree to
sign any paper or give a passing evaluation to a shirker, but if he got
off the wrong side  beware! About such people it is said that they are
quick to harshly deal with someone. Despite this, if you turn to a
representative of this type for help in a critical situation, he won't
idly sit about and talk, or give you free advice, but instead he will
try help you through concrete deeds (strong sensing function). In this
is their main virtue.

Among drawbacks of SLEs is their inability to see future consequences of their harsh words and actions (weak intuition of potential). Due to this, it sometimes seems to the SLE that problems fall on him or her out of nowhere and all of a sudden, and grow like an avalanche. In which case the SLE sees his or her main goal in holding out and being firm. The SLE is not always capable of understanding the nuances of people's relations. Strong volitional sensing, in this case, as if covers for their weaker ethical functions, creating an impression of a "tank". Like a ram, the SLE pushes through against other people's opinions and weaknesses.

.. note::
    **Editor's note**: Quite often the "impervious, massive tank" impression is also created by Se-SEEs whose ethical functions are weakened in favor of sensing and logical ones.

.. _IEI-Prokofieva:

IEI, INFp (Ni,Fe)
-----------------

**Intuitive-ethical introvert (IEI)** can be characterized as a dreamer
and romantic. Reminiscing about the future and thinking of the past take
up IEI's thoughts. Representatives of this type like to lay on a sofa
with a book, or go to the countryside to spend time amidst nature.
However, nature can be insidious - it can produce unpleasant surprises
in way of rain, snow, and wind. Which is why these trips happen only in
IEI's mind. Strong intuition of time (1st channel) gives this type an
inclination towards mysticism and superstition, beliefs in prophetic
dreams and omens. Ethics of emotions (creative function) helps the IEI
to tune to their conversation partner's hidden feelings and see the
nuanced inclinations of another's soul.

However, the IEI is not always able to use his or her creative ethical
function for good. At times one can meet an IEI with exaggerated ethics
of emotions, simply put a person who is emotionally labile and
uninhibited. Instead of comforting people with the warmth of his soul,
he begins to manipulate other people and act capricious and touchy. In
an exalted emotional upsurge the IEI can become hysterical, because
"everything is wrong" and "things didn't turn out to be as desired"
(weak sensing and logic). In a word, this type is not meant for sensory
hardships. Under the influence of intuition of time, the IEI can
submerge himself in the world of illusions, dreams, and imaginings, and
could hardly drive a long-term project to a logical finish. The IEI can
be renovating their homes for years, having started moving the furniture
in the morning already drop this undertaking by the lunch time.

.. _EIE-Prokofieva:

EIE, ENFj (Fe,Ni)
-----------------

**Ethical-intuitive extravert (EIE)** can be characterized as a person
of immoderate emotion. It's not without a reason that there are many
producers, artists, and musicians among them (ethics of emotions as
first function). "The world - is a stage, and all people in it - are
actors" this is the EIE's slogan. The EIE is able to present boring
material to an audience in an amazingly vivid, interesting, and
involving manner. And, in general, it's never boring hanging around
people of this type. The EIE lives from one emotional storm, that began
suddenly, like a thunderstorm in May, to another. In a conversation he
may insert some quotes, jokes, puns, or anecdotes. Often he is an
appreciator of everything sublime and exalted. Developed intuition of
time allows him to predict from first glance that which will become
popular and that which will not. Among representatives of this type
there are many followers of avant-garde movements in literature, music,
and art. The EIE - is a Bohemian person who is very emotionally
sensitive to the spirits of the epoch. These are the most aristocratic
people - true "princes" and "princesses".

One of EIE's shortcomings is excessive reliance on "working the public".
Indifference, lack of attention to his posing and outward affect can be
disastrous for him. Not finding the right audience, EIE's enthusiasm
fades, his behavior becomes dry and constrained, resentment towards his
listeners appears. EIEs are also given to extreme squeamishness
(vulnerable sensing of sensations function). Despite this, the living
space of the representatives of this type are usually kept in the state
of "artistic mess". Contradictions also show up their external
appearance. They may wear both red and green colors together, explaining
it by fashion and their own idiosyncratic style. Painful inability to
follow logic (weak function) sometimes hypertrophies as an accentuated
desire to be taken as a serious, logical, business-like man or woman. In
this case, the EIE may have many notebooks, calling cards, and piece of
notes in his pockets, which he will present at the slighted occasion.
The EIE also poorly tolerates physical pain and poor health. Dentists
are their arch-enemies. The smallest scratch or bump may unsettle them
for a long time, while their luxuriant imagination may attribute
terrible consequences to it. Remember the tale of "The Princess and the
Pea" - this is exactly the case here.

.. _LSI-Prokofieva:

LSI, ISTj (Ti,Se)
-----------------

**Logical-sensing introverts (LSIs)** prefer to act quietly,
systematically, and rationally. In their mind, the world is organized in
a logical manner (according to their base function). These people
respect discipline and order. They are often advocates of strong power.
The most obvious representative of this personality type was I. V.
Stalin. He preferred to act secretly in his politics, sometimes setting
up intrigues to eliminate his rivals without "spectacles and noise".
LSI's persistence and patience are often envied by many who lack in
these qualities. Other people take a step back seeing the quiet but
determined resolve of LSI. Logical sensing introverts  are leaders and
managers of small teams that accurately and timely complete work or
study assignments.

LSI's drawback is in weak ethics of emotions. Representatives of this
type are often blamed for being emotionally deaf and impervious. For
example, they are rarely capable of feeling the mood that prevails in a
group of people. They prefer to build their relationships with people on
the effect of admiration. Representatives of this type can hardly listen
to and, moreover, accept even constructive criticism. The weakness of
intuition of opportunities can be seen in their tendency to fight
"extra" information and to hold onto one previously formed opinion. They
consider discussions and debates to be unnecessary squabbles that
interfere with doing work. LSIs also rarely take advice, considering
their own point of view to be the only right one. If they are told about
their flaws, even very tactfully, they can keep a grievance and take
revenge on a person given the occasion. In the course of Stalin's
repressions, for example, dissenting intellectuals were physically
eliminated.

.. _SEE-Prokofieva:

SEE, ESFp (Se,Fi)
-----------------

**Sensing-ethical extraverts (SEE)** are inborn leaders. Their main
sphere of interest is in realistic matters and activities where they can
feel their unlimited influence on others. Representatives of this type
respect power and strive for it, as well as for all the privileges it
provides. Their slogan is: "came, saw, won over!". These are self-willed
people who are at the same time diplomatic. If for other types of
information metabolism the process of thinking things over before some
important engagement is natural, the SEE simply throws him or herself
into activities. "The main thing is to engage in battle, and then we'll
see", - said Napoleon Bonapart, a representatives of this type. "I jump
into love just like diving off a cliff" - echoes Alla Pugachyova,
another notable representative of type SEE. These are people of
uncontrollable passions; if they are friends  then to the end; if they
love  then they hold nothing back. They live by the present. The future
is always wonderful for them, but it is in the future. While there is no
reason to have regrets about the past, for it cannot be turned back.

SEE's drawback is their desire to shine for everyone and everywhere like
the Sun. The fourth channel (painful function) is taken up by logic of
relations - they are not friends with computers, don't like logical
formalities: schemes, plans, schedules, dislike having to put everything
in order. From this comes their maximalism. Their feelings of the type
"love-hate" for one and the same person can change several times a day.
Sometimes the SEE puts on a mask of a skillful manipulator and
combinator, but due to the fact that intuition of possibilities is not
this type's strength his quick victories can turn into future problems
and defeats. The SEE hides his failures from onlookers, for nothing
should interfere with his image of the winner. SEEs are also often
blamed in egocentrism, too high ambitions, and self-conceit. People of
this type live by one day, "in the here and now of the current
situation", and sometimes acquire enemies through their fits of anger.

.. _ILI-Prokofieva:

ILI, INTp (Ni,Te)
-----------------

**Intuitive-logical introvert (ILI)** can be called the strategist of
all strategists. The combination of strong intuition and logic gives
people of this type qualities of wisdom and knowledge of life's laws.
The distinguishing attributes of ILI - are precaution and prescience.
One of the notable representative of this type was the M.I. Kutuzov. He
fought all his life, but didn't win any remarkable battles - all his
victories are ambiguous, with an even score. Despite this, he is known
as one of the greatest military generals. Napoleon and Suvorov called
Kutuzov a "clever fox". Why? Kutuzov's intellect shows itself in a
simple acceptance of the fact that there was no way to defeat Napoleon
in an open battle. Napoleon was a master of attack, who would thoroughly
think through the plan for the battle in advance, but Kutuzov knew how
to retreat. That is one of the most complicated military tasks  to hold
back enemy forces using only one part of the army, while constantly
switching maneuvers, changing from a fighting formation to a retreating
and marching formation. Kutuzov carefully calculated and was able to
predict that Napoleon would not manage to provide enough forage for
horses of the cavalry, and was absolutely right about this. At the end
of the war there were only 5,000 people remaining of the great "Grand
Army" - and this was from five or six hundred thousand soldiers!
Meanwhile, Kutuzov retained half of his army for the main battle to
come.

ILI's main drawback is painful inability to adequately demonstrate his
emotions. To memory comes the historical fact of Kutuzov eating chicken
during the Battle of Borodino. Representatives of this type sometimes
make an impression of being gloomy, sullen, and melancholic people.
However, under their mask of perpetual skepticism and pessimism hides an
idealist and a dreamer. To not be seen as an "avaricious knight" the ILI
is capable of being generous and undertaking reckless actions. For
example, he can give a dear person an expensive gift. However, even in
such a case the ILI doesn't spend all of his money. More likely he will
calculate in advance how much should be spent and when he should stop.
ILI's weak sensing functions manifest as an indifference towards
external appearance, that for some ILIs turns into slackness and
untidiness. In general, ILIs tend to simple styles in clothing.

.. _LIE-Prokofieva:

LIE, ENTj (Te,Ni)
-----------------

**Logical-intuitive extraverts (LIE)** are born entrepreneurs,
businessmen, rationalizers. Representatives of this type can be
characterized as hard workers. However, they don't like purposeless
activities - there should be a final goal everywhere. The workings of
LIE's mind are reminiscent of a computer (strong base logic). They are
capable of grasping the gist of the matter, calculating all the
concurrent aspects, and figuring out optimal ways solving problems
(manifestation of intuition). At the same time, representatives of this
type are incorrigible romantics, predisposed to traveling, adventures,
and risk. Among them there are stuntmen, experimenters, and testers.
LIEs work with ease and cheerfulness. A feeling of comradeship and
friendship is very important to them.

One of LIE's weaker sides is their appearance (weak sensing functions).
They often look as if have just returned from a trip: men are unshaved,
women lack hairstyle. LIEs have so many important things to do that they
have absolutely no time left to take care of themselves. The same is
true about their dietary and culinary habits. Representatives of this
type don't like to improvise and cook complicated dishes in kitchen, but
would rather take a recipe from a cookbook and prepare something simple
and quick. To a casual question about their health they can start
describing their recent worrying and doubtful symptoms. The LIEs also
have a peculiar spontaneity to their demonstrations of emotions (weak
ethics of emotions) that can be compared to a sudden waterfall. In such
moments it seems that they are "too much" for the people around them.

.. _ESI-Prokofieva:

ESI, ISFj (Fi,Se)
-----------------

**Ethical-sensing introvert (ESI)** is a true stoic and a guardian of
moral foundations of society. Among representatives of this type there
are many lawyers, doctors, investigators, and teachers (ethics of
relations as first function). ESI women are distinguished by their deep
attachment to their families. Taking on heavy, labor-intensive burdens
in form of working, taking care of children, and household matters, the
ESI's doesn't complain about own life but heroically goes through the
difficulties. In dedication, commitment, stability and reliability no
other types can compare to the ESI (volitional sensing as creative
function). This type can be a doctor not only on the soul, but also of
the body. Struggle against evil  is a distinguishing feature of this
type.

One of ESI's drawbacks is the excess rationality present in this type. A
certain degree of orthodoxy and maximalism negatively characterizes
people of this type. Let us remember the numerous stories from ancient
Greece: what should the main hero choose  love or duty? ESI chooses the
later. By this, the ESI often becomes a hostage of their own loneliness
with few friends, as potentially interesting people and relationships
that don't corresponds to ESI's system of values are quickly dropped
from his or her field of view. Representatives of this type are also at
odds with intuition and are capable of showing initiative in an untimely
or inappropriate manner. This, in turn, can lead them into trouble
"initiative is punishable".

.. _IEE-Prokofieva:

IEE, ENFp (Ne,Fi)
-----------------

**Intuitive-ethical extraverts (IEEs)** are born psychologists,
consultants, and intermediaries. Representatives of this type are
usually the most lively and individualistic people of all. Their way of
thinking is non-trivial and unusual. Intuition in the first channel
gives the IEE an ability to grasp the gist of another person's problems
and wishes from first glance, while in combination with ethics it
manifests itself as a sense of tact. From time to time the IEE discovers
in their conversation partner potential, merits, and talents, that were
previously unknown even to that person. There are also many inventors
and discoverers among IEEs in the fields of computer programming and
technology. Of IEE's talent in working with people we'd like to talk
separately. Representatives of this type typically seem charming, warm,
and considerate. They are friends with different kinds of people, and
their friends like them for their insightful understanding of people's
problems and peculiarities. If you have come across a person capable of
keeping in good relations with their former wives, husbands, and
colleagues, it is mostly likely to be IEE.

IEE's drawback is their inability to do any tasks or work that requires
attention to detail, meticulousness, accurate planning and scheduling,
and any type of "sedentary" work. Representatives of this type may not
turn in their graduation papers, quarterly accounting reports, and other
important documentation for a long time (weak volitional sensing). IEE's
openness and friendliness can sometimes play bad tricks on them. Though,
sometimes IEEs can show indomitable will and determination to reach
their goals, later they may regret the harsh words they've said and the
actions the committed and seek reconciliation.

.. _SLI-Prokofieva:

SLI, ISTp (Si,Te)
-----------------

**Sensoric-logical introverts (SLIs)** are the type of people who prefer
to have a bird in their hands than two in the bushes. Strong sensing
functions usually endow the SLI with a talent in everything that is
connected to working with hands. A distinguishing trait of this type -
is concern for and a striving to create material well-being and comfort
in their lives. They are discerning in art and design, and typically
have a good sense taste. SLIs like quality items that emphasize their
inner dignity and high status. Frequently, their status is high
externally as well. Both men and women of this type are often able to
organize profitable businesses in commerce or production. Aided by
strong sensing functions, SLIs are typically good at food preparation,
which for them may be a kind of sacred ritual. Even if the SLI does not
have a villa in Canary Islands but only a small apartment on the
outskirts of Moscow, please, believe, he or she will know how to enjoy a
morning jog on dew covered grass, the smell of blossoming lilac, and a
mug of fresh milk.

The drawback of this type is in its weak functions of ethics of emotions
and intuition of time. Similarly to the ILI, the SLI experiences
difficulties in expressing his feelings and emotions. Being secretly
afraid of being misunderstood (SLIs are very vulnerable), the SLI will
prefer to hide his or her real attitudes towards other people, and won't
show them at all. However if the SLI is humiliated or made fun of in
public, he or she can burst into tears, lose their temper and start
shouting at the offender. Representatives of this type remember the
smallest offenses, and after serious quarrels they are capable of
breaking relations forever. SLI's weak intuition of time manifests in
their desire to plan their affairs in advance. This is also the root of
their excess conservatism and caution. The SLI will never make a final
decision without a thorough analysis of all aspects of the situation.

.. _LSE-Prokofieva:

LSE, ESTj (Te,Si)
-----------------

**Logical-sensing extravert (LSE)** is distinguished by an ability to
discern the main tasks or matters from secondary ones. LSEs are
business-minded, organized, and consistent. They dislikes rushing and
fussiness, and the nervousness that comes with these. On the whole,
representatives of this type are reasonable in estimating their own
strengths, and that is why they try to find a corresponding position at
work. Sensing of sensations in creative channel gives the LSE a
discerning and refined sense of taste and ability to create beauty with
their own hands. Women-LSE prefer effective clothes and accessories that
fit their figure. Beauty combined with functionality and utility - is
the guarantee of their success.

LSE's drawback can be their inclination to predictability and stability
(weak intuitive functions). For fear of living in present day they are
sometimes reproached about conservatism and lack of foresight. Weak
ethical functions make the LSE feel uncertain in new unfamiliar
situations that involve other people. Despite this type being
extraverted, the LSE is not inclined make new friends or start new
relationships, being guided by the principle that "an old friend is
better than a new one". Even if their family life does not satisfy them
for some reason, the LSE is unlikely to separate and continue on alone.

.. _EII-Prokofieva:

EII, INFj (Fi,Ne)
-----------------

**Ethical-intuitive introvert (EII)** places questions of human ethics
in the first place in his hierarchy of priorities (ethics of relations
is the first function). EII's creativity is aimed at researching new,
more ideal forms of relationships. EII is attentive to every
personality, for he sees it as an entire world in itself, a vessel,
where personal beauty is intermixed with crudeness, anger, and hatred.
TIM EII  is a spiritual and moral shepherd, a mentor irrespective of
this person's age. Those who are distraught and in grief turn to him for
consolation, when they need to cry on somebodys shoulder or their heart
is aching. Making a journey from understanding to forgiving, EII
fulfills his destiny.

One of EII's shortcomings is deficiency of volitional sensing, which
shows itself as an irreconcilable attitude towards violence and use of
physical force. At the same time, most of EII's favorite sayings - are
appeals to obligation. As a result, the EII produces excessive fuss
which could be avoided. Spending his or her days on searching for
interesting philosophical or humanistic information and dwelling in
thoughts and discussions that don't have concrete, immediate, practical
application, the EII often experiences difficulties with organizing and
building up her everyday life. Forceful pressure from the outside has a
suppressing, destructive effect on the vulnerable EII who is unable to
resist such pressuring for a long time. Representatives of this type
often defend ideals and ideas, while putting aside and criticizing
"bourgeois" manifestations such as the desire to dress and to eat
lavishly. EII's sacrificial attitude may be aimed at people who have no
need in it.

Literature
----------

1. A. Barsova. How to live ones own life and not other persons or personality typology.  M.: AST-press, 2001.
2. S.E. Kashnitsky. Among people. Socionics  the science of communication.  M.: Armada-press, 2001.
