Socionics Type Descriptions by Piatnitskiy
==============================================

.. warning::
    This page or section **needs works**.

 Table of Content


.. _ILE-Piatnitskiy:

ILE (Don Quixote)
-----------------

**ILE (intuitive-logical extravert)**

**EGO.** To perceive the world as a world of meaning, ideas, puzzles and
search for solutions to answer their questions. In each situation well
into the essence of the object or phenomenon, its positive features and
justifies, describes them in terms of global, abstract logical laws. For
the presentation of his vision builds an abstract system, scheme,
generalized concept, which in general proves concrete idea, hunch,
possibility.

**Super-Ego.** The concept of volitional rebuff, resistance, protection,
based on common templates and stereotypes. Understanding human relations
and ways to avoid the tensions which only occurs on the basis of
personal ponianiya. Not able to assess adkevatnost manifestations of
sympathy / antipathy, agree with the rules and take into account the
situation of wearing it is very difficult. Therefore, any hint of
unethical, inability to act, disrespect for other people is perceived
painfully. Stereotypically seeks to establish and maintain relationships
that help protect yourself and loved ones from the volitional pressure,
with limited personal experience of understanding the relationships
themselves.

**Super-Id.** It involves information about aesthetics and komformte
broadly. It feels a lack of the knowledge / skills in eliminating
discomfort, inability to diversify the aesthetic perception. I would
assume that is able to create and maintain a pleasant emotional
atmosphere around him, in private, in an informal atmosphere. Pleasant
positive evaluation of this skill. It is activated in situations of good
mood warm emotional atmosphere.

**ID.** Has your elaborated in the course of individual life convenient
ways to timing of activities. Involuntarily choose the best technologies
and methods for the implementation of the current work. Implicitly, did
not hesitate to use flexible ways to achieve the goal at hand, allowing
roughly fit into the overall time schedule, which charted for
themselves.

.. _SEI-Piatnitskiy:

SEI (Dumas)
-----------

**SEI (sensory-ethical introvert)**

**EGO.** The perception of the world in terms of comfort and
convenience, especially emotional comfort. Good understands and
appreciates comfort, depending on the place, time and situation. It
seeks to reduce the negative glow in the general emotional atmosphere,
to raise another mood, consciously changing the state of the other
person, his emotions, thus creating a particular atmosphere around him
comfortable.

**Super-Ego.** Ability to evaluate the prospect, make a prediction, to
anticipate developments based on the turned stereotypes borrowed
techniques to solve such problems. The time and turnaround time appoint
stereotypically, can not always take into account the dependence of the
terms of the particular situation. Understanding the technological
properties of materials, the construction workflow, workflow, different
ways of working and their performance solely on the basis of personal
experience. Not able to evaluate and compare their own way to solve such
problems with the way the others do. So sensitive about criticism of the
way of expressing the business activity and the organization of work.

**Super-Id.** It involves information on extraordinary opportunities,
outstanding personalities, ideas and opportunities in a broad sense.
Sometimes it feels difficulty in a situation rich in potential. I would
like to take it to act fairly, reasonably, reasonable in the particular
circumstances. Needs assessment of skills. Unconsciously activated to
build the rationale, allowing to realize significant potential if
necessary.

**ID.** In everyday life, it has its own set level claims, material
wealth and influence in every situation. Flexible and without hesitation
uses its natural ability to establish a good relationship, to negotiate.
Unconsciously uses this ability to strengthen their positions, defend
their interests.

.. _ESE-Piatnitskiy:

ESE (Hugo)
----------

**ESE (ethical-sensory extravert)**

**EGO.** The perception of fundamentals which is emotional. Good feeling
emotional atmosphere in any situation, knows the relevance of the method
of expression, space and weight (importance) of the internal state of
each situation. A flexible approach to solving management problems and
expressing emotions. It is oriented in the negative and the positive
state. Creatively it creates around itself a comfort, comfort,
convenient equips space, surrounds himself with beautiful things,
thereby changing the overall mood.

**Super-Ego.** Practical and technological thinking is firmly based on
the knowledge acquired and solve similar problems templates. Methods of
business activity in general, as a particular area selected on the basis
of the opinion authoritative sources, or customize for one of the
developed templates. Prediction of specific changes in the sphere of
their interests is carried out only on the basis of personal experience.
Not able to compare their forecasting method with other, so the disease
is perceived criticism of poor choices or time periods Dislikes untimely
situations; lost due to adverse events. Guided by purely personal
experience, choose a specific time and date for a variety of cases with
a limited understanding of the social norms of business activity and how
to work at all.

**Super-Id.** It involves information on the procedure, the specific
logical relationships in the sphere of activity or interest. Needs
prompts to specific methods targeting links between phenomena, laws and
regulations. I would like to believe that he can choose the features
successfully use even a small chance. Needs assessment of skills.
Unconsciously activated when the need for a procedure, a clear
consistency and clarity in the matter, especially if it will be
recognized his ability.

**ID.** Involuntarily tracks relationships in his social circle. without
hesitation enjoys proficiency on personal practice a variety of ways to
establish and maintain relationships. Good relations are important as
such for personal self-confidence in a situation. To prevent the adverse
relationship is prone, often without realizing, operate the pressure,
forcing a showdown, forcing a partner to change the relationship for the
better.

.. _LII-Piatnitskiy:

LII (Robespierre)
-----------------

**LII (logical-intuitive introvert)**

**EGO.** analytical thinking. Good understanding in which relationships
are some objects or phenomena with others, what laws apply in this case,
or not valid. Based on a comprehensive analysis puts forward specific
conjectures about the positive essence of concrete objects and
phenomena, their concrete positive opportunities, and some constructive
ideas.

**Super-Ego.** Stereotypes about the relationship between people and the
ways out of the unpleasant ethical situations. Determined to protect the
manifestations of their living space is carried out only on the basis of
personal experience. Due to the limited capacity to repel sensitive to
any attempts at interference in his life.

**Super-Id.** It involves information on a good mood, a particular
positive state of feeling. I would like to believe that he can address
the serious inconvenience, to reduce discomfort in the surrounding
world. Needs assessment of skills. Unconsciously it is activated when
there is a need to make the environment more comfortable, which should
lead to a better state, to cheer up at least in the immediate
surroundings.

**ID.** Fitting life has developed methods and related specific
practical activity, processability, use of resources. Spontaneously
feels the correct allocation of resources over time, allowing to solve
current tasks effectively.

.. _SLE-Piatnitskiy:

SLE (Zhukov)
------------

**SLE (sensory-logical extravert)**

**EGO.** The perception of the world in terms of will, strength
qualities, conflict of interests and ways of influence. Well see the
strength and power of a strong-willed different objects, people, social
structures. In any situation he knows how to subdue, suppress, overcome,
persevere. Build specific logic circuits to achieve their goals. It
creates rules and procedures, allowing to achieve maximum impact.

**Super-Ego.** Understanding the potential and opportunities based on
stereotypes, often borrowed the methods of evaluation. The horizon of
opportunities based on the generally accepted views. Stereotypically
evaluates the ability of other people. Good relationships with specific
people establish and maintain only on the basis of their understanding
of personal relationships. Not able to select the best way to express
the relationship, or even a way to assess the establishment of relations
with the others do it. So sensitive about remarks about incorrectness,
tactlessness.

**Super-Id.** Attracts positive information about a particular term,
future pleasant surprises of fate. Often feel a lack of ability to
predict, to see positive incentives in the long term. I would like to
believe that he can manage the general emotional atmosphere, to maintain
the desired state of the fuse. Needs assessment of skills. Unconsciously
activated in case of need to prove himself igniter desired emotional
atmosphere, to present an emotional surprise.

**ID.** The activities of daily living enjoyed individually Legacy ways
of creating, comfort, convenience. Spontaneously flexibly and
confidently use the necessary tools, technology, the process for the
implementation of the current practice.

.. _IEI-Piatnitskiy:

IEI (Yesenin)
-------------

**IEI (intuitive-ethical introvert)**

**EGO.** Experience the world as an eternally ongoing process of
constant developments and changes, which are often filled with deep
meaning. Particularly inclined to mark the event, wearing a universal,
or break character. It can accurately assess the prospects and
developments, taking into account both the general trends and particular
situations. In situations that may lead to a deterioration of the
emotional atmosphere of the oppressed in every way trying to prevent
this deterioration. For this purpose, as an antidote, it creates a close
and good mood. The main motto of "do not lose heart, even in the most
difficult situations.

**Super-Ego.** Remedy discomfort, creating convenience, aesthetics
understanding of shapes and proportions, based on the knowledge learned.
Knowledge of these acquired or in the process of formation, or borrowed
from authority figures. It is difficult to create an aesthetic product
that would meet the requirements of the situation. Approaches to the
specific practices are unique and do not always correspond to
conventional techniques. Sam this inadequacy is not able to see, as it
is difficult to confidently compare their ways of working with while
others do it. Unpleasant criticism of practicality, business skills, the
choice of method and work tools.

**Super-Id.** It involves information on the power side of life, and
especially the specific methods of protection of their living space,
their interests. It feels a lack of skills and information on the
protection and display of influence methods. It claims to be a proper
assessment of its ability to analyze, the ability to think collectively.
Needs assessment of skills. Unconsciously activated to use analytical,
logical ability, if necessary, especially if it leads to a strengthening
of its influence.

**ID.** Has the life achievements of recognition given the essence of
things and phenomena. In different situations, to cope with the tasks
that require a choice between several possibilities, seeing the positive
qualities of people or events. Broad and flexible enjoys an innate
ability to build and maintain relationships. Relationship problems solve
in passing, not particularly paying attention.

.. _EIE-Piatnitskiy:

EIE Hamlet
----------

**EIE (ethical-intuitive extravert)**

**EGO.** Positive emotions are the main purpose and value of life. Well
aware a positive state (emotions, feelings), his or another person close
to the psychological distance. He sees the subtleties and nuances of
positive emotional state in different situations, able to transfer
feelings into the situation and time. It strives to show others the
coming troubles, adverse events. He sees and understands the events as a
phenomenon of the total scale. The inherent tragedy of perception of
events. The events inclined to see a deep relationship with other
events, far-reaching consequences, which are important especially in the
emotional context. He tries to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past
and points to another way of avoiding adverse events, thereby providing
a good state (mood, positive emotions) itself and those who consider the
immediate environment.

**Super-Ego.** Conventional ideas about his professional activities
known, the specific effective ways of working. The work is firmly based
on the knowledge that is trained to expect the same from others.
Perception of comfort and discomfort, convenience and inconvenience, and
other positive and negative sensory based only on their own experience.
It can not relate their understanding of feelings in order, as it is in
society. So sensitive about remarks about inconveniences in the world,
about his inability to navigate well in these matters. Attempts to use
his often peculiar understanding of beauty, comfort and convenience when
working with objects. Brought up understanding that the work is
necessary to ensure an acceptable level of their facilities.

**Super-Id.** It involves information on the objective laws of being, of
existing in the world of relationships and the relationships between its
elements, the theories and draw examples of consistent, clear logical
thinking. Oriented in this information at the level of personal
experience, does not want to compare your own understanding with the
conventional. Inadequate response to a negative assessment of its
consistency. I would like to believe that he can resist the
strong-willed pressure to defend their living space. It has the
individual methods, techniques, patterns, determining the borders
(psychological and physical) that can not be violated. It needs a
positive assessment of such skills. Unconsciously activated when
opportunities to show their best side in voleproyavleniya question. I
like to feel a champion and protector, to protect and defend themselves
and immediate surroundings with the feeling of injustice, partiality,
illegality.

**ID.** It builds on the whole it comfortable relationships with others.
The manifestation of sympathy / antipathy performs according to the
accumulated during the life of the individual skills. Establishing a
relationship considers the process depends on the individual
inclinations enters into a relationship of dialogue participants.
Usually it turns out good to see concrete positive potential,
possibilities, abilities. Freely and without hesitation uses this skill
in their lives.

.. _LSI-Piatnitskiy:

LSI (Maxim Gorky)
-----------------

**LSI (logical-sensory introvert)**

**EGO.** World Vision as a system of rules, laws, knowledge hierarchies.
Perceived by others as part of their world view in detail thought out
system. Each concept or phenomenon fits into this system. It tends to
apply the effect, promotion, coercion and force action to save important
system for him, the established order. Vary the amount of pressure and
the influence of the tool to achieve their goals in the right situation.

**Super-Ego.** A good relationship takes on the basis of the rules
learned. Understanding the relationships and sympathy based on
stereotyped views. Hard, if necessary, to find a way to show a good
attitude in an unusual situation. Search capabilities, potentials and
possible meanings of phenomena limited personal experience and personal
understanding. Assesses the propensity and ability of others based on
their own ideas, have difficulties in assessing the adequacy of the
assessment and comparison of these estimates with others.

**Super-Id.** Experience difficulties in creating the necessary
emotional atmosphere. Attracted by the opportunity to get away from the
negative state, to get the enthusiasm and excitement. It activates the
positive outlook, sense of belonging to the significant event.

**ID.** Based on the experience generated is the right tool for the
activity in which he is involved. Technological process side is
automatic and effective. Flexible use of the individual the ability to
organize work space, convenience and comfort.

.. _SEE-Piatnitskiy:

SEE (Napoleon)
--------------

**SEE (sensory-ethical extravert)**

**EGO.** Well aware of how to resist pressure to resist the attempts of
forceful impact to preserve the independence and the existing sphere of
influence. Manipulates relations can influence the relationship between
people, thus protecting themselves. Sets with people such relationships,
which allow to feel safe, to remain independent.

**Super-Ego.** Conventional ideas about concrete positive opportunities,
abilities. Building a common logical relationships only on the basis of
personal experience. Therefore, any need to create a new system
relations objects causes difficulties. It seeks to realize a concrete
idea, the possibility of a limited understanding of the latest social
norms.

**Super-Id.** Involves information on any events, developments, how to
avoid major adverse events, mistakes of the past, about the general
perspective and historical experience. I would assume that is able to
work well on specific objects. It needs a positive evaluation of this
skill. Unconsciously activated if necessary to avoid any adverse events
through a particular work effectively.

**ID.** Program reduce discomfort and to create comfort at all. It is
being implemented through the creation of a particular positive state
(emotions, feelings) for yourself and loved ones. Unconsciously it
creates a narrow circle of the atmosphere of good mood.

.. _ILI-Piatnitskiy:

ILI (Balzac)
------------

**ILI (intuitive-logical introvert)**

**EGO.** Well see and understand the course of events. Able to predict
the results deyatetelnosti, the progress of the situation. Builds
projections that often come true. Learning the properties of objects in
terms of practical application. Able to create a new way of working and
tools. It achieves optimal technology, which allows first of all to save
time.

**Super-Ego.** Comfort and convenience are understood on the basis of
learned norms and stereotypes. It is not always able to create a
comfortable working or home environment. The emotional states focuses
only on the basis of their own experience. Often inadequate in
manifestations of emotions. Estimates of his emotional state on the part
may be to his liking.

**Super-Id.** He feels some uncertainty in their ability to defend
themselves, to protect their interests. Draws power and all sorts of
information on how the power struggle for the defense and offense. I
would like to believe that he can build a good relationship, be tactful
and agreeable. It needs a positive evaluation of this skill.

**ID.** As a result of life experiences passed involuntarily distinguish
the essence of things inherent capabilities and internal quality. First
notice negative traits quality. The advanced logic makes it easy to
structure events and phenomena in the course of daily activities.

.. _LIE-Piatnitskiy:

LIE (Jack London)
-----------------

**LIE (logical-intuitive extravert)**

**EGO.** He knows and is able to flexibly use a variety of objects and
their properties. It has advanced technological thinking, "knows how to
create an optimal and efficient way of working, a new tool. Good sense
of developments in the near term, and uses this skill at the right time
to apply their skills.

**Super-Ego.** It has a common idea of ??the emotional world. The
ability to lift your mood, to maintain the atmosphere in the team is
based on the stereotypical methods. Comfort understands only on the
basis of their own experience and their own ideas. Inflexible in this
regard and can not objectively evaluate your understanding of comfort
and convenience.

**Super-Id.** Feeling difficulty in establishing good relations. He
needs assistance in understanding the likes and dislikes. It is
activated when necessary to overcome the difficulties and manifestations
of volitional qualities, especially if it is, in his view contributes to
the triumph of good. It needs a positive evaluation of his strong-willed
qualities.

**ID.** The daily activity is based on the developed schemes and
structures of experience. It should be individually tried and tested way
to build logic actions. Spontaneously and accurately estimates the
hidden features and capabilities. Easy to grasp the essence of phenomena
and events.

.. _ESI-Piatnitskiy:

ESI (Dreiser)
-------------

**ESI (ethical-sensory introvert)**

**EGO.** Well see how someone who belongs to, know how to form, manifest
and change attitudes in different situations, knows the socially
accepted norm manifestations relations, and has its own understanding of
morality .. It focuses in positive and in negative ways. Can exist in a
situation of prolonged conflict by protecting themselves and their
families adequately the situation. Applies the persistence and firmness
to defend the moral and ethical values.

**Super-Ego.** It can evaluate the coherence and consistency of
thoughts, actions, phenomena in terms of the lessons (learned) concepts.
Conventional ideas about common logical relationships and dependencies
in the world, about building a consistent inference schemes, structures.
Hidden features and inherent potential is estimated only based on their
own understanding. Not able to assess whether it coincides with the
generally accepted understanding. The need to understand the essence of
logic models, theories, umopostroeny reduces to a circle of his
interests (activities). Vision concrete positive opportunities and
abilities only on the basis of personal experience. So sensitive about
remarks the lack of flexibility, insight, about the need to find new
options.

**Super-Id.** It feels insufficient orientation in the concrete
application of practice. It involves information on the need to perform
a specific job, its efficient methods, the positive properties of
concrete objects. Only personal experience relies When performing the
work. Wanting to fulfill specific to a certain area of ??specialization
work to improve their skills in a narrow field. I would like to believe
that he can avoid adverse events, a repetition of past mistakes. Needs
assessment of skills. Unconsciously activated predict negative events,
consequences and avoid them, especially if they have a particular impact
on its practical activities, if necessary. Specific actions give
confidence in order to avoid trouble in the future.

**ID.** Individual, automatically implemented method of creating for
yourself and loved ones a positive emotional background in different
situations. In the course of life responds to discomfort, inconvenience,
discomfort and acts on their elimination. To feel better, reduces
discomfort in the environment, it eliminates the inconvenience and
discomfort, creates comfort.

.. _IEE-Piatnitskiy:

IEE (Huxley)
------------

**IEE (intuitive-ethical extravert)**

**EGO.** Good feels the possibility of other people watching from the
outside, especially strangers, highlights people with interesting
abilities among others. It seeks to establish a good relationship with
the interesting people at close range, to express their affection for
him. Find the way out of different situations, having a vision of hidden
opportunities, establishing a good relationship, or setting up a
positive public opinion.

**Super-Ego.** Conventional notions of willful exposure, the pressure
exerted by strong-willed qualities. Build specific relationships and
relationships based on personal experience. So sensitive about criticism
of analytical skills, experiences difficulties when confronted with a
strange logic. Attempts to achieve such a degree of influence in the
society, which corresponds to the norms internalized perceptions of
influence. Implements is through personal ideas about intelligence,
about the logical relationships.

**Super-Id.** It involves information about a particular organization of
space, a comfortable atmosphere around him. I would like to believe that
he can choose a sufficiently efficient ways of working, to establish a
process to improve it, to change the sequence of operations. Needs
assessment of skills. Unconsciously activated when necessary to create
comfort around you through the organization of performing any work,
manifestations of business activity.

**ID.** Individual program to create concrete positive developments,
positive changes. It is implemented through the creation of suitable
unconscious state (emotions, feelings, moods, feelings) as a, and
others.

.. _SLI-Piatnitskiy:

SLI (Gabin)
-----------

**SLI (sensory-logical introvert)**

**EGO.** It has a flexible vision of spatial relationships and
proportions. To perceive the world as a harmony of lines in space, the
harmony of the physical sensations that there is a balance between
simplicity and elegance of form. He sees the wealth of forms, their
absolute and relative value, including both beautiful and ugly. Able to
adapt to discomfort, to eliminate the inconvenience of taking into
account the accepted standards of aesthetics, the current situation and
possible developments in the future. Soberly evaluates and uses
technical means and materials to achieve the desired results, taking
into account the specific possibilities of the material and tools for a
given purpose.

**Super-Ego.** Plans for the event, based on the lessons taken over
prediction templates. It's hard to move away from the conventional way
of evaluating the progress of the situation in time. To deal with
emotional situations only on the basis of their own understanding of the
emotional world of people. The need to relate the emotional side of the
situation with the appropriate way to respond causes severe difficulty.
Not sure of the adequacy of their manifestations, so tends not to
express outwardly strong and turbulent emotions than the impression
maloemotsionalnogo person. Not versed in the area of ??negative emotions

**Super-Id.** Attracts positive about the opportunities and potential of
non-manifest in your life. Interested in unusual people, views, views.
The value of domestic content and essence of the person associated with
the attitude to it. The method displays the relationship consists of
individual conventional techniques. He considers himself able to
establish the necessary relationships with others and unconsciously
seeks to obtain a proper assessment of this ability.

**ID.** He has worked out the personal experiences of its own security
policy interests and the interests of the local environment. Flexible
and efficient use of existing systems and rules in their daily
activities, including for the protection of his interests.

.. _LSE-Piatnitskiy:

LSE (Stierlitz)
---------------

**LSE (logical-sensory extravert)**

**EGO.** In the surrounding objects, events, phenomena sees above all
the practical side. Treat all from the point of view of application in
the activities, characteristics and qualities that may be useful for
those interested in his work. Work, work is seen as a detailed process
of "full set of actions from the beginning to the end (the end of a
concrete, complete results). Able to take into account the nuances of
each phase of work, adjust actions according to the current situation,
including the exhaust methods or approaches to choose the best.
Constantly improving in their professional area, polishes his skills.
Good has a sense of convenience, comfort and discomfort. His vision of
aesthetics and beauty covers any objects that can change based on the
situation. It strives to create a comfortable environment, to eliminate
discomfort in order to create the necessary conditions for work. Apply
understanding of beauty to improve the properties of concrete objects.

**Super-Ego.** Conventional notions of good mood, positive state of
specific people within a narrow circle of friends. The communication is
able to maintain elevated-cheerful tone with the help of learned
techniques. Lost in the negative emotional atmosphere. It seeks to avoid
such situations. If he expresses negative emotions, it is often in an
inadequate manner. Guided only personal experience, it tends to avoid
unexpected events, loss of time and take into account the errors of the
past. Painfully perceives the information about the inability to foresee
the negative consequences of delays or anything. Standby condition
perceived negatively.

**Super-ID.** It involves information about human relations in general,
their modification, improvement or deterioration. Guidance on, relying
only on personal experience, not in a position to compare this
experience with a view, as it is to build and express relationships.
Configured to anything that can help somehow avoid the negative attitude
of others. I would like to believe that he can be a shrewd, resourceful,
to see concrete positive opportunities, the ability of people. It needs
a positive evaluation of this skill. Unconsciously activated if needed
to find a specific opportunity to change the relationships between
people.

**ID.** The daily activities secretly monitors compliance with
consistency, fairness throughout. Spontaneously protects, defends its
own system of values, worked out on the path of life understanding of
justice, with whom he lives. Resist any pressure, power influence.

.. _EII-Piatnitskiy:

EII (Dostoevsky)
----------------

**EII (ethical-intuitive introvert)**

**EGO.** He sees the world as a society interplay between individuals,
between which are formed thin network vziimnyh likes and dislikes.
Examines and evaluates everything in its relation to the object (person)
and with respect to which the object (person) generates in the near
surroundings. He sees attitude in their development, feels the details
and nuances of the relationship to themselves and to the object of
interest. He does not understand oritsatelnyh relationships, lost in
situations of negative attitudes and tries to avoid them in every way.
He sees internal inclinations, abilities and motives of human behavior.
He knows how to find justification for almost any negative actions, to
see the positive in the negative. It corrects the attitude depending on
changes in the perception of the internal content of the object
(person). In an effort not to spoil relations is able to show an
uncommon delicacy and ingenuity to avoid even a hint of a bad attitude.

**Super-Ego.** Conventional ideas about specific logical systems,
structures of social hierarchy. The existence of conventional concrete
social order, which has to comply with, perceived as an inevitable
necessity. Implementation of volitional pressure, pressure, impact of
the use of force only on the basis of personal experience. If necessary,
it defends the system of world order, trying to force the interlocutor
to accept his point of view. However, experiences difficulties when
necessary to carry out such a pressure sensitive about criticism of
volitional qualities, as well as the need to be violent.

**Super-ID.** Attracts any information on the practical moments of
activity, properties and parameters of the objects, the optimal
organization of business in general, trends in technology development.
Own organize practical activities only on the basis of the acquired
individual experience. I would like to believe that it has the taste,
able to organize the space around them, to create a comfortable
environment. Needs assessment of skills. Unconsciously activated when
needed to optimize any process through the establishment of facilities
in operation.

**ID.** It has the individual habits of expression and mood changes. In
different situations, encourage yourself and others by suitable means.
The daily activity uses the spontaneous ability to evaluate the near
future developments, innate sense of perspective in order to prevent
adverse development scenarios.