Romantic and Sexual Behavior of Quadras and Subtypes
======================================================

Quadra
------



Alpha Quadrant
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Types:** :doc:`ILE <ILE>` (ENTp), :doc:`SEI <SEI>` (ISFp), :doc:`LII <LII>`
(INTj), :doc:`ESE <ESE>` (ESFj)

| **Description by V. Meged**
| Motto: "To reflect and enjoy"

The :doc:`Alpha Quadra <alpha_quadra>` is characterized by a general, prevailing
attitude to establish pleasant relationships without any problems, which
may appear to have a "superficial" character. Mutual demands are
satisfied through compromise. Grievances are quickly forgotten. They
value having a sense of humor and responsiveness to erotic stimuli.
Common interests that are shared in an atmosphere of light, positive
emotional experiences helps to strengthen their relationships. In sexual
relations, they value freedom and openness. Partners are attuned to seek
perfection and intensity in their sexual experiences. They are
characterized not so much by their responsiveness to verbal stimuli, but
to touches and caresses. They are invigorated by fun, entertainment, and
delicious food.

**Description by A. Boukalov**

The sexual program of :doc:`Alpha Quadra <alpha_quadra>` is characterized by
tender touches and caresses. In the dyad SEI-ILE, partners "love each
other by their skin", as if dissolving in each other's embraces. The
sensing types SEI and ESE enjoy being gently stroked on their skin.
However, the ESE is much more emotional and passionate in his love
manifestations, because he has to shake up and active his dual, the
LII. The SEI, as an irrational type, shows more creativity and
flexibility in comparison. Intuitive-logical types, LII and ILE,
especially women, initially show less activity. Mirror relations
between LII and ILE are characterized by a paucity of emotions and
feelings, since both are logical and intuitive types. Mirror relations
between ESE and SEI are accompanied by bright emotions and sensations,
but there is often an accumulation of mutual subconscious
dissatisfaction with each other. In general, mirror relations in
marriage slowly "neuroticize" both partners. The ESE suffers more from
this due to his rationality, while on irrational SEI this has a lesser
effect.



Beta Quadrant
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Types:** :doc:`SLE <SLE>` (ESTp), :doc:`IEI <IEI>` (INFp), :doc:`EIE <EIE>`
(ENFj), :doc:`LSI <LSI>` (ISTj)

| **Description by V. Meged**
| Motto: "To endure and conquer"

Types of :doc:`Beta quadra <beta_quadra>` are characterized by a desire to test
the strength of their feelings. Feelings of mistrust give rise to their
tendency for strong relationships with jealous and possessive
sentiments. When there is a lack of trust - deep, strong, and often
dramatic experiences contribute to frequent quarrels followed by
successive reconciliations. Such volatile emotional states are full of
contradictions. A balance is achieved through suppression and submission
of partners. Their sexuality is characterized by a mood of seriousness
and passion. Often, one partner will behave in the opposite way of what
the other expects, resulting in contrasting behaviors and sudden,
unexpected emotional effects. For types in this quadra, coercive and
defensive behavioral tendencies are sexually stimulating.

**Description by A. Boukalov**

In second :doc:`Beta quadrant <beta_quadra>` the nature of sexual program is
of a very different kind. Here, tender touches and strokes leave
partners indifferent. Instead they strive for an intense effect on
each other's skin, which manifests in strong embraces, when partners
squeeze and press each other. Both sensing type, SLE and LSI, are very
jealous: one thought of their partner's infidelity may poison their
life. It is not a mere accident that William Shakespeare, an EIE,
describes how Othello (LSI) squeezes Desdemona when he is trying to
kill her. Let us consider a real example: a married couple, students,
an LSI (husband) and an EIE (wife), live in communal housing. Since
the wife is a sociable extravert, her husband is often jealous of her
contacts with their neighbors. The scenes resemble those of
Shakespeare: "Whom have you been with?" the LSI husband asks and puts
his hands on his wife's neck. She screams out, and he releases her out
of fright. As for the SLE, he/she can in the moments of intercourse
give accurate and decisive commands to the IEI. Mirror relations
between SLE and LSI are quite complicated: in order to adapt to the
partner, the SLE needs to constantly control himself, to keep himself
in check. This tires him out, but if he doesn't do this, he
"neuroticizes" the LSI by his sensory leading function, which is
absent in the EIE. From EIE the LSI expects expressive dramatic
feelings and support for his/her sensory initiatives. Meanwhile, the
partners may adopt the most unbelievable positions. It is interesting
to note that when types from different quadra meet, they view each
other's behavioral peculiarities as unusual, which includes sexual
behavior. Thus, a female ESI was quite amazed by attempts of a male
IEI to squeeze her  she had to "teach him anew".



Gamma Quadrant
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Types:** :doc:`SEE <SEE>` (ESFp), :doc:`ILI <ILI>` (INTp), :doc:`LIE <LIE>`
(ENTj), :doc:`ESI <ESI>` (ISFj)

| **Description by V. Meged**
| Motto: "To collaborate and acquire"

The :doc:`Gamma quadra's <gamma_quadra>` awareness and understanding of financial
issues is dictated by an attitude towards mutual, material benefit
between partners. They find a special significance in acquiring gifts
and assistance in resolving business matters. This creates a favorable
atmosphere and is also one of their erotic stimuli. However, in a quadra
that is generally inclined towards stable relationships, problems of
mutual understanding, frequent doubts, contradictions, and instability
of emotions gives rise to crises and unexpected turns. The inherent
emotional endurance of this quadra, combined with their rationality and
practicality, helps them to cope with these issues. Between partners,
volatile sexual patterns are the norm - from complete spiritual and
physical mergers to estrangement. They are excited by light acts of
resistance in a variety of settings.

**Description by A. Boukalov**

The sexual program of the third, :doc:`Gamma quadra <gamma_quadra>` is very
dynamic and often characterized by acrobatic behaviors of the
partners. In dual dyad SEE-ILI, the initiative is almost always in the
hands of the SEE, who uses his sensory function to direct his ILI
partner. The ILI submits even when he is simply decisively taken by
the hand. One ILI said: "If I am taken by the hand and led, I would
follow at once. I wouldn't resist it but submit to the partner's
control." When it comes to the dual dyad ESI-LIE, here frequent change
of positions, high intensity of feelings, and high number of
intercourses within short periods of time (for example, a couple of
days) with subsequent long periods of cool down, relaxation and
restoration of forces, are all characteristic. If the SEE cools down
after the intercourse very quickly, the ESI might need one-two hours
of strokes and caresses by his partner. Mirror relations between ESI
and SEE resemble the mirror relations between LSI and SLE: ESI is also
quite jealous. It is interesting in this regard to compare the
intimate relations of SEI and SEE. These are called "contrary"
relations, or relations of complete opposites. This may result in
partner quickly growing cold towards each other, especially the
introvert, as they completely extinguish each other in sensory and
emotional sense. In "contrary" couples IEI-IEE and ILI-ILE such
extinguishment effect is weaker and slower to take place, because
their sensing functions reside in unconscious perception of both
partners.



Delta Quadrant
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Types:** :doc:`IEE <IEE>` (ENFp), :doc:`SLI <SLI>` (ISTp), :doc:`LSE <LSE>`
(ESTj), :doc:`EII <EII>` (INFj)

| **Description by V. Meged**
| Motto: "To protect and help"

The spirit of :doc:`Delta quadra <delta_quadra>` is characterized by an
aggravated reaction to mental and physical discomfort. Therefore, a
desire for harmony in all aspects of life is of special importance to
them. They are stimulated by the combination of a beautiful and
comfortable environment, delicious food, sincerity, and trust. It is
necessary for them to care for the mental and physical comfort of their
partners, as well as having safety and security in their relationships.
For them, deep feelings imply a full understanding of, sensitivity to,
and consideration for their partner's problems. They value mutual
assistance in all things. Without this kind of responsiveness,
harmonious sex can be problematic. The slightest faux pas or
misunderstanding in a relationship can have an oppressive effect on
their sex lives.

| **Description by A. Boukalov**

Playful behavior, laughing, tender pinches of the partner, etc. are
descriptive of the sexual program of the fourth, :doc:`Delta quadra <delta_quadra>`. The LSE shows more energy, though less creativity,
in order to "wind up" his shy dual EII, and therefore he holds back
less compared to the SLI. The SLI reserves his energies instead but
shows more creativity with his dual the IEE; for both of them the
approach is alike a high form of art. Female IEEs are characterized by
wriggling, coquettish, cat-like movements. This dyad is strongly
affected by external stimuli: movies, writing, lyrics, pictures,
literature. A weak spot of IEE is pity or sympathy: a partner can be
successful by telling stories of his sufferings and misfortunes. In
this situation, the IEE becomes gentle and tender, and feels an urgent
need to provide some relief. Incidentally, another epithet for IEE is
"Don Juan": he can successfully court a woman, but in the last moment
evade physical closeness. In this, IEE's dual SLI and activator LSE
take the initiative into their own hands.



Type Subtypes
-------------



Alpha Subtypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**ILE-Ne**: May show little initiative, but once he is assured of
reciprocity of feelings he becomes kind, affectionate, and agreeable.
Not inclined to hurry, likes extended preparations. Strives towards new
impressions, but tries to be diplomatic to avoid conflicts. His sexual
interest is periodic in its nature. With him it is necessary to show
patience, modesty, and restraint. First of all, one must evoke his
respect and confidence in one's feelings, and then lightly and
diplomatically nudge him towards showing some initiative in physical
enjoyment, as a great source of health, happiness and pleasure.

**ILE-Ti**: Somewhat distrustful of feelings and may be tactless. But if
he is certain of love, he shows initiative, becomes kind, tries to do
something enjoyable and pleasing for his partner, improves sexual
techniques. Needs a decisive, emotional, and sexual partner, who is able
to quickly convince him of his feelings and evoke reciprocity in him.
With him it is necessary to constantly use emotional stimuli: quips and
jokes, coquetry and jealousy.

**SEI-Si**: Very sexual, creative, and diverse in intimate sense. Softly
but persistently takes initiative in getting close. Diplomatic and
careful, knows how to persuade. Likes stability in relations and doesn't
easily forgive betrayal. Inclined to emotional involvements, but doesn't
always follow the call of his feelings. In need of someone who can evoke
his respect and admiration by their own extraordinary capabilities. This
helps to keep his interest for a long time, on the condition that this
person needs his care and doesn't push him away by asserting
independence.

**SEI-Fe**: Romantic in love, emotional, a good speaker. Pleasant and
yielding, yet also sensitive and easily offended. Subject to sharp
fluctuations in feelings. May be impatient and try to hurry the events.
Values frequent sexual contacts. Inclined to deeply feel his affections.
Frequently, he is inconstant and unstable in his feelings, but very
attentive towards those whom he loves. He needs to be teased a bit by
uncertainty, to be intrigued and captivated, then shown initiative when
reciprocity in feelings is evident. When his interest wanes, it can help
to evoke light jealousy.

**LII-Ti**: Doesn't feel himself confident in the sphere of feelings,
secretive and mistrustful. Desires relations that are constant and
stable. With difficulty takes initiative in making contacts, does this
only when he is sure of reciprocity in feelings. Often reserved in
expression of feelings. He is a loyal partner. It is needed to do
pleasant things for him, to prepare a nice meal, to care for his
physical tension, to take sexual initiative, to fulfill his requests. He
is undemanding in his needs, but doesn't like it when his rules and
principles are transgressed.

**LII-Ne**: Attentive and internally emotional partner. Easily responds
to sexual initiatives, but himself doesn't make them very often. Careful
and farsighted. Inclined to sharp changes in moods, can be inconsistent
in his feelings. Erotically affectionate and tender, seeks new
impressions. In intimate sense one needs to show him warmth, trust, and
sincere care, to introduce more variety into sex, to raise his mood.
Being intrusive and limiting his freedom is not recommended.

**ESE-Fe**: Very emotional, can idealize the object of his love. Strives
for stable relations, is mistrustful and wary. Tries to maintain an
interest in himself. It is necessary to pay attention to the problems of
such partner, otherwise there is a risk of disappointing him. It is also
needed to not give him any grounds for jealousy, to be tolerant, to
behave correctly, calmly and evenly. This will help to keep stable and
trusting relations, of which he is truly in need.

**ESE-Si**: Often shows initiative in sex, attentive and caring, and
knows how to give pleasure. Diplomatic and sincere in communication.
Very demanding partner. Gravitates towards new impressions, curious in
sex and willingly experiments. Poorly foresees the consequences of his
actions, rash and impulsive in his decisions. In a relationship with him
one needs to show responsiveness in feelings and creativity, and avoid
routine and overloading him with everyday chores and problems.



Beta Subtypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**EIE-Fe**: Not confident in himself, subject to doubts and
fluctuations. Erotically does not take initiative. Inclined to analyze
behavior of his partner. Quite sentimental, a romantic in his soul. With
those whom he loves he is sensitive and caring. Tires quickly from
routine. Strives for stable relations, constant in his attachments,
discerning of his connections. Very impressionable, does not forgive
rudeness and incorrect behavior. He needs a serious, imperturbable,
correct and self-controlled partner. He is impressed by hardworking,
knowledgeable, knowing what they want and capable of dissuading any
doubts people.

**EIE-Ni**: Strongly feels his attractions and often dramatizes events.
Inclined to idealize the object of his love. Even if he is sure of
reciprocity in feelings, at times he is contradictory and unpredictable
in how he acts. In intimate life can be original, passionate, and
sexual, then suddenly display haughtiness, coldness, inclination to
inconstancy. Very sensitive, emotional, easily offended, and jealous.
Expressive by various tints of emotion. Inclined to internally
accumulate feelings and needs to periodically discharge them through
communication, quarrels, reconciliations, etc. He is impressed by
caring, persistent, emotional in measure, initiative-taking partner who
can calm him down, encourage him, and reassure and instill confidence in
own feelings.

**LSI-Ti**: Strives towards clarity and certainty, restrained in
expression of his feelings, aims for stable relations, poorly tolerates
quarrels. Inclined to experience doubts and mistrust. With his partner
shows care, does small pleasant things, gives gifts. Needs a sensitive
and delicate partner, because he is rather linear and simple in sexual
interaction and quite constrained in expression of his emotions, both
positive and negative ones. In need of an attentive and caring partner
who won't try to impose his will on him. This should be a person who is
amenable to his persuasions and who fulfills all of his requirements.

**LSI-Se**: Thoughtful, attentive, and initiative-taking in courtship,
but rather monotonous in the erotic sense. Knows how to give compliments
and establish close contacts with people. Emotional, hot tempered,
decisive, at time sharp and blunt. Persistent and obstinate, knows how
to attain a goal by any means possible. Needs a sexual, emotional,
romantic partner with whom he won't get bored. He needs someone who is a
flexible diplomat, who knows how to discharge emotions, how to forgive
and not keep resentments.

**SLE-Se**: Demonstrative and unpredictable in his behavior. Persistent
and sexually daring. Animated in communication, possesses a sense of
humor. Very emotional and inclined to ignore the feelings and
relationships of others and not take their interests into account.
Sexual and diverse in both his moods and erotic reactions. Possessive
and demanding as a partner, but can be caring and affectionate. Jealous
and unrestrained. A gourmand, strives towards variety in sensations.
Appreciates originality in everything. Needs a sensitive, caring
partner. He is impressed by an attentive, loyal, dependable partner, who
fully yields initiative to him, and who shares his drive for order and
industriousness in keeping the household.

**SLE-Ti**: For a long time doubts feelings of his partner, tends to
occupy a "wait and see" position. Somewhat restrained in displaying his
feelings and emotions, waits for initiative from others, but does so in
extreme cases. Then, he becomes tender and attentive, strives towards
improvements in sexual techniques. In his soul, he is sentimental.
Private, remembers offenses for a long time. He needs a person who is
agreeable, flexible and diplomatic. Someone who is affectionate,
attractive, merry and optimistic.

**IEI-Ni**: Takes little initiative, is patient and somewhat shy.
Romantic, elevated in his feelings, dreams of great love for all time.
Yielding in everyday matters, tries to be practical and industrious if
his partner demands it. Not brave in sex, but strives for sexual harmony
and reaching both spiritual and physical perfection. Somewhat unsure of
himself. He needs a volitional, decisive, active and energetic partner,
who possesses a sense of humor and knows how to instill faith and
confidence in a positive outcome.

**IEI-Fe**: Very emotional. Expresses his emotions easily and
artistically. Coquettish, charming, enticing, dresses with taste.
Aesthete in relations, values good manners. Knows how to provoke
activity and initiative from a partner who is attractive to him.
Diplomatic, but at times capricious, demanding, easily offended, and
indignant for any minor reason, although does not hold resentments for
long. Likes sexual games, prolonged preparations. Needs a strong, loyal,
practical, sensitive and initiative-taking partner who would be a solid
support in life.



Gamma Subtypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**SEE-Se**: Very contradictory in his behavior: at times sharp and
pushy, other times affectionate, considerate, and diplomatic. Emotional,
dramatically shows his emotions by gestures, gaze, and behavior.
Characterized by unpredictable reactions. Quite impatient, strives
towards physical realization of his emotions. He likes promising but
somewhat unset in their desires partners. Inventive in the erotic.
Easily takes offense, vulnerable, and capricious. Appreciates care,
kindness, and tact. His search for an ideal partner may go on for a long
time. Needs a wise, patient, yielding person, who knows how to forgive
and fulfill most of his requirements, who is critical to a measure and
not boring.

**SEE-Fi**: Soft yet persistent partner. Always knows what he wants and
knows how to reach it. Appreciates politeness, aesthetics, and good
manners. Can take initiative in sex, but might also await for it from
another. Dislikes it when someone imposes feelings on him that he
doesn't share. Inclined to family life, even though he tends towards
leadership. Likes calm and order, that his partner needs to introduce
into his life. Strives towards coziness, comfort, is sufficiently
industrious and active, willingly travels. Needs a sober-minded,
reasonable, hard-working partner, who knows how to provide for the
family and evoke respect. Of the rest he will take care himself.

**ILI-Ni**: Internally sensitive, inclined to doubts and fluctuations.
Lenient towards weaknesses of others, rarely loses control of himself.
Strives towards calm, harmonious relations. Somewhat unsure in the
erotic, mistrustful and cautious. Needs prolonged courtship or sexual
preparation and other signs of love. Not against "tormenting" a bit the
object of his love in order to achieve a greater peak of emotions.
Requires understanding and respect. Needs an optimistic and diplomatic
partner, who knows how to persuade and who is capable of dispelling all
his doubts. In the erotic, waits for the initiative from another, which
can lead to misunderstandings if his partner is not inclined to show it.

**ILI-Te**: Values activity, decisiveness, and enterprise. Sensible,
reliable, and constant in his feelings. Attributes much significance to
material and soulful comfort, order, and economic management of the
household. Gives a certain measure of freedom to his partner, but
dislikes extremes and tries to stabilize relations. Likes emotional
preparation and high level of sexual technique. Needs a partner who
would encourage him in his own initiatives. He is impressed by willful
and practical people, who strengthen the family/households prosperity
and welfare. Builds relations with such a person on basis of reasonable
compromises.

**LIE-Te**: His attitude towards sex is somewhat conservative and
rational. Values high ethical qualities, strives for stable and long
relations. Tries to lead a simple healthy sexual life, primarily with
one partner, whose pleasure and satisfaction is important for him.
Easily takes offense, inclined to jealousy and possessive attitudes.
Needs a diplomatic, sensitive, responsive partner. Likes serious,
emotional within measure people who can understand him. His partner
needs to demonstrate leniency, and at the same time be able to diversify
erotic impressions.

**LIE-Ni**: Independent and romantic, with unpredictable reactions.
Inclined to frequent change of impressions and of partners. Impatient,
hurries events, prone to hurry sexual relations putting them on an
accelerated pace. Affectionate, tender, considerate. Possesses a sense
of humor. Expresses his emotions in a humorous, joking form. Daring,
readily takes initiative, values reciprocity. Easily takes offense,
impulsive. If he is unsure of reciprocal feelings, may seek closeness
with other partners. In need of a volitional person, who would be able
to keep a hold on him. Finds support in an industrious, sexual, and
reliable partner.

**ESI-Fi**: Tends to stability, constancy, and sincerity in relations.
Expresses his attitudes by gaze, words, and care. Attentive to detail,
cautious, wary. In need of a partner who is not very demanding. This
must be an industrious person, interested in creating and maintaining
order, comfort, and prosperity. His partner must be inclined to
enjoyment to a measure, but loyal in his sentiments and attachments.
Otherwise, he may break up relations and ignore any persuasions and
compromises.

**ESI-Se**: Emotional, usually restrained in his feeling, but capable of
taking initiative if he feels that his partner finds it difficult,
however, does so only when he is sure of reciprocity in feelings. Has
many hidden complexes. It is difficult for him to loosen up and become
uninhibited. Due to this may seem cold in erotic sense. Needs both
romantic and practical proofs of love and affection, and a partner who
takes initiative and is confident in his feelings. He is impressed by
flexible, dynamic people, who can jokingly remove tension or suspicions,
and instill confidence in a positive outcome of events.



Delta Subtypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**LSE-Te**: Proud and restrained. Not inclined to doubt feelings. Stable
and constant, does not forgive betrayals. Straightforward, uncontrived,
and persistent in relations. Simple and linear in the erotic. Dislikes
indeterminacy, coquetry, verbal expressions of feelings, and
frivolousness in behavior. Often puts matters above feelings, capable of
demonstrating coldness, and thus needs a patient, self-controlled
partner. Discerning and picky in his contacts. He is in need of an
agreeable, amiable, industrious, diligent partner who likes order in
everything.

**LSE-Si**: Very erotic, sentimental in his soul, but about feelings
prefers to talk in a joking manner. Inclined to jealousy, mistrust,
exaggerations, may easily takes offense. Emotional and energetic. In
erotic sense is initiative-taking and sexual partner. Very much
appreciates pleasant sensations of any kind: great food, convenience,
aesthetics, good manners. Demonstrates diplomacy in the interests of
business and predisposes people towards trust. Values friendship and
love, always ready to come to aid. He needs a sufficiently teasing and
flirtatious, romantic partner, who readily responds to erotic
initiatives. He is best matched by a modest, reliable, self-controlled,
but emotionally variable person.

**EII-Fi**: Trusting, loyal, an idealist in his soul. Internally
emotional but outwardly tries to control his feelings. A reliable
partner disposed to stable relations. Kind and soft, however, demanding
and stubborn in relations, and does not forgive betrayals. Strives
towards aesthetics, harmony, and perfection in sex. Vulnerable, and very
dependent on the emotional state of those whom he loves. Requires proofs
of love. Needs a an optimistic, confident in himself and his feelings
partner. In sexual life he is a follower and yields to the requirements
of his partner. He is attracted by initiative-taking, emotional people.

**EII-Ne**: Self-controlled, inclined to indeterminacy and having
doubts, vacillates in making decisions, indecisive. Unsure of his
feelings. Principled and uncompromising in the questions of loyalty and
honor. In erotic sense he is yielding and somewhat shy, waits for
initiative from another. At times unpredictable, inclined to have
fantasies. Likes to improve and perfect sexual relations. Somewhat
reserved and talks of his worries with people close to him. In need of
an active, industrious, practical partner who is accurate and concrete
in his words and intentions. He is attracted by honest, specific, clear
and set in their wishes and desires people with strong character and a
sense of duty.

**IEE-Ne**: Strives for novelty in sensations, cannot tolerate routine
in feelings. Seeks reciprocity and harmony in sexual relations.
Internally impressionable and easily offended, which makes his behavior
at times sharp and unpredictable. An idealist and a romantic, searches
for perfection in love. Distrustful, is constantly analyzing his own
feelings and those of his partner. Aims for mutual sincerity. Dislikes
indeterminacy. He is somewhat unsure of himself and not inclined to
independently take on decisions. Values care and concern of another,
which makes him serene and yielding. Blooms next to a sensual and
attentive person, capable of encouraging him and freeing him from
doubts.

**IEE-Fi**: Emotional and affectionate, optimistic, and
initiative-taking. Inclined to unique expressions of his feelings.
Inventive in the erotic sense when he sees that his partner appreciates
this. When angry loses self-control, thus needs a level-headed and
patient partner. Then he becomes sincere, natural, unaffected and
spontaneous in his emotional expression. Need someone who intrigues by
his secretiveness and seems unsure in him/herself. Likes being the
leader in relations and masterfully builds reciprocity. In need of a
person who is active, hard-working, energetic, reliable, who would know
how to explain things to him and grant stability to these relations.

**SLI-Si**: Knows how to intrigue a partner. Not hurried in enjoyments.
Very caring and thoughtful, and strives to achieve the highest level of
harmony. Inventive and sexual in the erotic sense. Values beauty and
aesthetics. Does not tolerate monotony. Knows how to introduce an
element of a game into relations. Very sensitive, predisposed to apathy.
Any monotony in relations lowers the vitality of his feelings. He is
attracted to a moderately agreeable and lenient partner, with a rich
imagination, and variable in his behavior. At the same time, he gets
irritated by those who are too initiative-taking and commanding by their
nature.

**SLI-Te**: Unsure of his feelings, but brave and initiative-taking in
the erotic sense. Thinks more about the satisfaction and sensations of
his partner, and later about his own. Strives towards high sexual
technique. At times sharp, blunt, and impatient. Not sentimental, tries
of talk of his feelings in a joking form. Jealous and mistrustful, but
hides this under the mask of imperturbability. Inclined to stable
relations with one partner. Characterized by abrupt changes in his
moods, often feels skeptical. Internally vulnerable, inclined to despair
and depression. Needs an optimistically oriented person, who knows how
to encourage and interest him by interesting prospects and proposals.



Additional Links
----------------

-  :doc:`Subtyping systems and related articles <subtype>`
-  :doc:`Duality observations <dual_observations>`
-  :doc:`Romance styles <romance_styles>`
