SEE Profile by Gulenko
===========================


    
General description
-------------------

Confident, has aptitude for leadership. Enterprising, adventurous, and
active, the SEE (ESFp) strives to take practical actions within the
sphere of communications. Prefers to solve problems immediately,
otherwise he may cool off due to his variable nature. Gives a lot of
attention to external appearance, marks of prestige. Talks on topics of
culture, politics, and influence. Open to new impressions and
experiences.

SEE enjoys being the center of attention and evoking admiration in
others. Presents himself as a promising person of great potential and
with many open possibilities. Stresses his own personal originality and
uniqueness. Easy gives out compliments, says that which he knows others
would like to hear.

Knows how to make useful contacts and utilize them. In political games
often masterfully maneuvers between his contacts on the opposing sides.
Reconciles with people just as easily as he quarrels with them. During
down time likes to lament, to complain that he is not understood. In
situations when he is well-informed, he will cite different quotes and
facts by this demonstrating his erudition.

Poorly discerns what needs to be done now and what can be postponed
until later. Doesn't explain the reasons for his actions. Often makes
off-topic comments. Cannot keep up order himself, and will violently
protest if he is being subjected to any strict order or regulations.
When he needs information, prefers to interact and deal with people
face-to-face rather than read manuals and instructions.


Detailed description
--------------------

SEE is perceptive of the balance of power. He quickly detects who is
strong and who is weak, who can be pushed around and whom it's better
not to touch. Looks for weak spots in people who are close to him.
Exerting pressure on these points, he is able to change their behavior
in a way that is most favorable for him. He himself is not susceptible
to such manner of pressuring, will skillfully dodge it. Knows how to
stand up for himself. Reacts boisterously when his freedom and
opportunities are being limited. Orders around those who are less
resolute and decisive and less confident in themselves. With a stronger
partner talks on equal terms. Always finds a way to draw attention to
himself.

SEE is very discerning of the system of relationships that exist between
people. He knows how to tell someone precisely that which this person
wants to hear from him. However, he does not rush to fulfill his
promises if he doesn't feel a particular need in this. Balances between
interests of the opposing groups, successfully negotiating and
bargaining. If it's in his interests, he easily reconciles with former
adversaries. Knows how to mend and improve previously broken relations.
However, most often he plays on negative relations and dislikes rather
than on sympathies and positive relationships. He finds it difficult to
break relations that have run their course. Instead he will let a person
know indirectly that he or she is no longer interesting to him. Dislikes
allowing people too close to himself, because he feels that this imposes
certain obligations on him. Easily strikes up acquaintances and new
contacts and feels better and more confident in groups of people rather
than alone in everyday environment.

Presents himself as an original, unusual personality which won't be
fitted into any frameworks. Inclined to contrast himself with others
around him. Often can maintain a conversation on any topic, little by
little demonstrating that he is knowledgeable on a wide variety of
topics. Captures new information quickly, but mostly on the surface.
Periodically he is taken by reflections and contemplations, during which
time he becomes self-absorbed. At such times, it seems to him that
people do not perceive him as he really is. Quite capricious, moody and
choosy. Will often highlight his broad potential, his opportunities and
great prospects. Often argues and does not readily agree, will defend
his point of view and values on principle.

Dislikes it when others don't take his arguments and conclusions on a
given situation or problem into consideration. Those who ignore his
remarks he will consider to be his opponents. Dependent on the
established order within the area where he lives or works. May complain
about lack of organization and disorder, although won't enforce it
himself, since he doesn't want to ruin his relations and his actions are
often not methodical. He only responds to the already established
hierarchy. With a person he communicates either from a lower position,
as a subordinate, or from a higher position, as their superior. With
subordinates he is not ceremonious. Cannot tolerate people around
himself whom he dislikes, does everything in his abilities in order to
remove them. Doesn't have any system of action.

Feels enlivened and inspired when his time is taken up by matters.
Otherwise, having an excess of time, may lead a sedentary, lazy
lifestyle, despairing and criticizing everything. He enjoys constant
change, development, contrariness. Often wants to leave for somewhere
else and completely change his situation. Tries to impose time that is
most convenient to him. Sometimes he is hurrying and rushing others,
while at others times he slows down and strongly inhibits any quick
decisions. If he needs to, will always find something to pick on. Likes
when he is being persuaded, approached at some distance, told many
examples and instructive stories from the past.

His mood depends on how well things are going for him. To improve his
emotional state, offer him some profitable or beneficial activity. Has
an inclination to show generosity, up to extravagance, when his mood is
elevated, and frugality and stinginess when he is emotionally depressed.
In any case, emotions and personal relations are the most important
thing for him. He cannot work if the occupation is uninteresting to him.
Any activity or undertaking can turn into entertainment, make it feel
like a show. Becomes very nervous and angry, if he is outdone in
business or if rewards and material benefits have been distributed in a
way that he thinks he is getting less than others. He can start a
quarrel over this.

Hates it when someone violates his peace and relaxation. Concerns very
much for his financial and physical well-being. Will not allow anything
to the detriment of his own leisure. Looks after cleanliness and the
standards of hygiene. Squeamish. Criticizes the quality of products and
value of goods if in his opinion they are not on par. Feels comfortable
with his body and physiological processes. He is distinguished by his
personal aesthetic taste, which doesn't always coincide which the
accepted tastes. When taking trips out to nature, he is cautious, won't
venture first to an unknown location. Conservative in his habits and
home life. Sometimes falls to an extreme and becomes indifference of his
own appearance.

His productivity at work is highly dependent on his mood. When he is in
high spirits, he will undertake even hard work, but when he is not in
the mood, then even very important work will remain undone. Energetic in
carrying out those tasks that can be done immediately. If there is no
quick returns, and ahead lies a lot of hard work, he soon cools down and
looks for another course of action. Excitement and emotional arousal
increase his efficiency. Around himself he creates an atmosphere of a
celebration, a feast. Best at resolving his problems and issues by
informal means. Dissipates his energy in various directions: deals with
several things at once, easily switching from one to another. If the
number of his interests continues to grow, then his efficiency falls.


Manner of communication
-----------------------

The main trait that identifies an SEE in communication - is a turbulent
reaction when he is being subordinated to rules that limit his concrete
activities. In such cases, the SEE may behave in a very assertive and
bold way. The SEE becomes irritated when he or she is being criticized
for whims, illogical actions, when someone tries to figure out
motivations for his behavior. Very self-confident, doesn't take logical
arguments into account. In interaction, the SEE readily displays his or
her feelings. Openly expresses personal sympathies and antipathies.
SEE's feelings are very flexible and mutable. He can quarrel with a
person and leave slamming the door, but after some time he can come back
and reconcile, as if nothing has happened. From time to time, the SEE
enters periods of relaxation and meditation. Likes to feel sad at such
times, to complain that he is not understood, that in reality he is not
how he seems to others. In such moments his gaze looks off into the
distance, his eyes become shrouded by a haze and cloudy. In company,
aims to bring out people's positive emotions. Doesn't like to entertain
others, but will with pleasure support a free atmosphere of absolutely
uninhibited communication. Sociable, likes to talk about anything. Often
has a habit of talking on the phone for a long time. In a circle of
friends, transfers his mood onto others. If he's in a bad mood, it's bad
for everyone, if he is merry and cheerful, he can be up to anything.


Features of behavior
--------------------

The main feature of SEE's behavior that becomes apparent after some time
- is the ability to manipulate people's feelings. When he needs it, he
is always able to turn people's attention to himself. Does this openly,
without any embarrassment. Usually has a large number of acquaintances.
The SEE doesn't always want to break up relations that have exhausted
themselves and become boring, thus his circle of acquaintances is always
expanding. Everywhere he acts in accordance with the existing
possibilities. He never takes up projects that are unfeasible and unreal
from his point of view. A tactic that is characteristic of the SEE
trying to solve a problem: tries to solve them at once, with a single
"onslaught". Wants to get a quick result for his work. If this doesn't
happen his desire to do any work wanes. Impatient. Cannot occupy himself
with the same task or activity for a long time. Rarely feels bored, as
he is always able to find some activity or occupation for himself,
depending on his mood. In everyday home life behaves himself carefree
and carelessly. Forgets to turn off appliances. Dishes that don't
require constant attendance often end up being burned. Inclined to show
tenderness towards animals. He is emotionally moved by cute birds,
kittens, and dogs, if he sees them on the street. However, not inclined
to keep many pets in the house for reasons of cleanliness and hygiene.

Appearance
----------

A SEE is noticeable in by his figure and facial features. Often has a
full, voluminous in all parts of the body, figure. This is especially
true for women. Due to this, the SEE gives of an impression of a certain
"uncontrollable" mass. Looking at SEE's face, the first thing that draws
attention is a soft, sometimes maudlin mouth, as well as nervous lips,
the corners of which are often dropped down. Because of this, in mature
age, lateral vertical folds of skin form around his mouth. The shape of
SEE's face is commonly oval, smooth, without protruding parts. Eyes are
mobile, agile, skimming along the surface of people and objects,
assessing and scanning space. The eyes are usually not very deep set.
Sometimes the lower portion of his face has more weight than the upper
portion. Two subtypes of SEE - :doc:`sensing and ethical <SEE_subtypes>` -
are distinguished by the nature of their movements and their gait. The
:doc:`ethical subtype <SEE_subtypes>` of SEE is often quick, restless,
daring. The :doc:`sensory subtype <SEE_subtypes>` is calm, measured, moves
with confidence. Watching the movements of sensory subtype for some
time, an impression might arise of a "viscous, stringy mass", a "rolling
ball of mercury". SEE's clothing usually distinguishes his or her from
the surrounding people. The SEE watches fashion, but one cannot say that
he mindlessly copies it. Dresses in a way to draw the attention of
others. Always confident in his appearance, so sometimes allows himself
to dress in the most original outfits that immediately catch the eye
(especially true for women of this type).


As a subordinate
----------------

| **Strengths**
| Has good diplomatic and business capabilities. Quickly orients in
  extreme situations. Confident in him/herself. Bold and decisive, and
  kind at the same time. Always knows what he or she wants. Seeks advice
  more formally, makes decisions independently. Strives to be aware of
  different current events, and himself likes being the center of
  attention. In communicating polite, predisposes towards trust, knows
  how to create an atmosphere of intimacy and sincerity. Charming,
  democratic, usually holds himself relaxed and at ease. Monitors his
  health and external appearance. Aesthete, loves to dress with style
  and diversity. Takes care of people close to him, appreciates comfort
  and convenience. Gravitates to practical activity. Prefers near-lying
  concrete goals that bring tangible benefits.

| **Problem areas**
| Quite disorganized, inclined to get distracted at work by minor
  details. Finds it difficult to concentrate his attention on one thing
  for a long time. Prone to fluctuations when having to make a choice,
  which leads to inner reflections and doubts that he hides. Few have
  his real confidence and trust. Quite conservative in attitude towards
  anything new: needs some time to absorb and understand new
  technologies and become convinces of their practicality. Takes risks
  only after he has weighed everything very well. Inclined to even out
  individual capabilities of people, likes it when everyone acts and
  behaves in the same way. Exhibits aggressiveness if his freedom is
  restricted. Transfers his moods onto other people.

From him/her one cannot demand and expect:

-  Punctuality and responsible commitment;
-  Organization and consistency in business;
-  Ability to distribute the assignments and tasks well;
-  Deep strategic and analytical abilities;
-  Fairness in distribution of material benefits;
-  Fulfillment of all his promises.

Recommended occupations: Social sphere: trade (especially wholesale),
supply of material resources; diplomatic representation, organization
and leadership of cultural events; show business, the entertainment
sphere, stage performance.


As a supervisor
---------------

Flexibility, diplomacy, and skillful use of opposing individuals or
sides - are the main qualities of SEE. Such qualities are present in a
strong person, who knows how to manipulate their own emotions and the
emotions of other people. This type is very practical. He or she is able
to gain the confidence and to show their own necessity. Quickly adapts
to any social setting and easily finds a comfortable niche within it for
themselves.

Supervisor-manipulator The manager of this type is able to skillfully
manipulate emotional relationships and thus prudently move towards his
goal. These are very enterprising people who tend towards leadership
within their chosen field. As a rule, they are able to quickly climb the
career ladder. Their intellectual and other psychological resources are
directed primarily at ensuring their own safety, retention of their work
status and well-being. They tend to view their subordinates as a means
in the struggle for power.

This sociotype quickly orients in present situation and easily finds
ways to solve the challenges of today. His system behavior is built in
accordance with the present situation (developed situational extraverted
logic allows the SEE to respond appropriately to the given
circumstances). The form of his reactions to any event largely depends
on his emotional perception. He does not like to subject his activities
and his ways of relating to other people to some once and for all
specified rules. According to him, there are different "rules" that can
be selected depending on the circumstances, psychological and employment
status of the person, and the evaluation of his real and potential
capabilities. Not the last place in these assessments play the
considerations of usefulness and personal gains and benefits. If the SEE
believes that he doesn't need a person as his partner, he can easily
break off relations with him, not considering any logical arguments and
conventionally accepted rules of behavior.

The "Politician" takes the nuances of relationships into account. He
knows the strengths and weakness of his partner or an employee.
Remembers his errors and blunders, and can put them to use at any time
in order to draw the person into his plans. Has conscious control of his
emotions and uses them as a tool of exerting influence on other people.
Knows how to command, how to exert volitional pressure on others. But
can also successfully use the method of persuasion.

A characteristic trait of the "Politician" as a manger or leader - is
the desire to expand his influence in breadth. Tries to get rid of
people who question the expediency of his actions and the rationality of
his decisions. Painfully endures criticism in his address. If such a
person is the head of a small group, this is fraught with saturation of
work atmosphere with stormy, often negative emotions, and disruptions in
the rhythm of work. In a big group, such emotional manifestations will
occur to a much lesser extent, in some cases even be useful, for
example, when an organization is on the verge of undergoing great
changes.

Main characteristics:

-  Inclined to solving tactical problems.
-  Is able to adequately express themselves in the role of a frontal
   leader.
-  Method of establishing business contacts is oriented as subjective
   factors.
-  The form of business activity has a strong emotional component; it is
   focused on protection of existing gains and achievements.
-  The system of interaction with people implies an atmosphere of free
   uninhibited communication, establishment of collegiality.
-  Has competing type of behavior with elements of compromising type.
-  Achieves great results through episodically manifested boisterous
   activity and skillful manipulation of people.
-  Can show an active denial of an ethical approach in business.
-  Motives and purpose: self-interest, profit, and success of his
   organization at all costs.
-  Attitude towards the law: it is desirable to overcome legal barriers,
   but without criminal risks.
-  Strategy: full freedom of management; maximally possible exploitation
   of human capabilities.


Working conditions
------------------

The impetus that drives the SEE is achievement of high level of material
and ethical status within a group. The SEE needs to look effective, no
worse than others, so he expends a lot of effort and money to create an
image of a successful person. With this he strives that the things that
surround him are fashionable, expensive, as high-quality as possible.
The SEE can flexibly manipulate relationships with other people,
reducing or increasing the distance, according to the situation,
depending on whether the person is needed as a business partner, his
status in society (system of D. Carnegie). Tends to surround himself
with influential people. In a conversation with pleasure mentions
friends who have weight in society. For this reason, when communicating
with an SEE, it is recommended to show the utmost politeness and tact,
showing that you are considerate of SEE's status. If possible, show that
you are also doing well in life (it can be done with a spectacular
clothing, business cards, stationery objects, etc.). Remember that the
SEE makes judgments about you first of all basing on your external data.
If the SEE is your subordinate, do not use him or her for boring
sedentary jobs that require diligence and punctuality. SEE's also are
not quite successful in learning and adopting new technologies and new
working methods. They perform best when they are given various
supply-related and representational type work, that provides the SEE
with varied and interesting social contacts. Such subordinates poorly
tolerate criticism of their actions. Thus if you need to make a remark,
do so in private in careful form (it is best to use "Aesop's language" -
give some kind of exemplary analogous situation, giving the SEE an
opportunity to make conclusions for himself). Also remember that people
of this type almost don't plan their actions and poorly evaluate the
extent of initial risk. Therefore, if you develop a strategy and
methodology of future course of action and allow the SEE to implement it
- this will be optimal both for him and for you. He will also be
grateful is you warn him about possible risks and dangers.


Recommendations for self-improvement
------------------------------------

Your strong traits - are decisiveness and resourcefulness. Your type of
personality often has a tendency towards leadership. You are not afraid
to take the initiative in managing people for solution of large
problems. You always believe in yourself.

You know how to stand up for yourself and how to defend your authority
from unjust attacks. You actively take care of everyday needs of your
loved ones to ensure a good standard of living for them.

With your business and organizational skills you attract other people's
attention to yourself. You have a large circle of acquaintances, among
whom you are granted respect and trust. You have a good perception of
work/business capabilities of other people, and know how to properly use
them in the interests of business or a project.

Your sensitivity and charm allow you to gain friends and to win the
sympathy of others. Your many friends and acquaintances are willing to
do much for you.

In life you experience difficulties due to the fact that within the flow
of activities, work, chores, and projects that you're engaged with, you
cannot always separate the primary from the secondary. This ultimately
leads to waste of strengths and efforts, tiredness and fatigue.

You need to develop perseverance and patience in yourself. Try to bring
everything that you have started to its finish before you start on
something new. Do not try to solve everything immediately, in one fell
swoop. Be consistent and use different ways and approaches to solving
difficult problems.

Spend more time on self-development and self-education. Raise the level
of your theoretical understanding. This will allow you to avoid
accusations of incompetence and support your authority.

Concentrate your attention on big issues. Do not waste your energy on
minor things and arguments over trifles.

Do not make hasty decisions. Try to analyze the situation as a whole
before springing to action.

Be more objective in assessing merits of other people. Subjectivity in
your estimates may lead to unwanted conflict situations in a work-group
or a team.

Your other problem is that you are too sensitive to criticism. Being
vulnerable and touchy, you react badly to innocuous remarks, which
complicates your relationships with other people.

You have a tendency towards over-valuation of your own physical and
mental abilities. Try to be more critical in evaluating your own
potential, because over-valuation of your own strengths and capabilities
can lead you to a nervous and physical weakening and exhaustion.

Be more selective in your acquaintances to minimize the risk of being
compromised.

Nurture temperance in your desires. Remember that you cannot grasp the
immense and un-graspable. To avoid feelings of guilt and remorse, try
not to lose your sense of personal dignity even in the interests of your
work or business.
