SEE subtypes
==================

Sensory subtype Se-ESFp (Se-SEE)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The sensory subtype is an authoritative, confident in himself,
emotional, and assertive person. Behind his inner restlessness hides a
constant thirst for vigorous activity. Inclined to take up too much and
frequently ends up wasting his strengths and energies in vain. Despite
his best efforts to be diplomatic, at times he's too critical and
categorical. Often feels indignant, nonetheless doesn't forget to give
compliments. Can look down at this conversation partner, act
patronizing, poke at him with prickly jokes. But can also be very kind
and courteous, and knows how to keep insisting and persuading someone
for a long time, if needed. Possess good artistic sensibilities. Knows
how to entertain people. Often he is somewhat thin, looks after his
figure, periodically takes up physical exercise and sports. Shifts and
changes poses frequently. Eyes are commonly not very large and deep
seated. His gestures are impatient, movements seem gusty and nervous.
Gait is relaxed or even somewhat shaky and muddled. Speech may be
rushed, slightly slurred and too fast.

**Character**

Has the character of a leader. Self-assured, brave, and active. Flexible
in changing his tactics. Orients quickly in a changing situation and
adopts creative approaches as events unfold. Energetic and sociable.
Knows how to strike up useful contacts. Has difficulty with accurately
evaluating abilities and capabilities of people in resolution of
concrete tasks, often experiences doubts and hesitation over this, which
he prefers not to share with others. Can lead a large team. Resolute in
extreme situations and quickly finds means to stabilize the situation.

Gravitates towards practical activity. Prefers near-lying, concrete
goals that bring some tangible benefits. Tries to improve his competence
in his occupation, to raise his own profile and prestige and strengthen
his position. In the interest of his business can exert strong pressure
on his partners, be overly demanding, and perseverant. The victory must
always be attributed to him. Despite the scatteredness of his interests,
he tries to bring the most important bulk of work or assignments to
completion.

Prefers to have freedom of action. Does not recognize strict regulation
and control. Dislikes monotony and routine. Due to his tendency towards
irritability, may fall into depression. Quickly grows tired of routine
and boredom, then seeks change and new experiences. Active and mobile,
tries to be always informed about current events.

Cautious in new ventures, as he doesn't have a good sense of their
prospective future development. Mistrustful of new untested in practice
ideas. Strives to understand general patterns and laws that lie behind
topics and questions of interest to him, to soberly analyze the
situation. Gathers needed information, establishes necessary links,
consults with people who are more competent than him. Takes risks only
after weighting everything out, but then he acts quickly and decisively.
Has strong willpower, endurance, and perseverance in overcoming
difficulties, but in the interests of his business is able to agree to
temporary compromises.

Has a complex and problematic character. Demands that others need to
reckon with him, to recognize his authority, to respect him for his
business and personal qualities. Sensitive to criticism, admits his own
mistakes with great difficulty. Feeling offended by someone, does not
take advice, may even act the opposite. Very vulnerable and
insufficiently self-critical, thus only praises of his merits and
abilities can encourage him to activity.

Emotional, impulsive. Due to rapid changes of moods is unpredictable in
his behavior: at times he is artistic and demonstrative, other times he
is wary, prickly, and provocative. Passes on his moods to people around
him. if he is in high spirits, can infect everyone with his optimism,
cheer them up with original antics, and inspire any activity; if he is
in a bad mood, he prefers to be alone, or to socialize with people who
can give him their attention and sympathies. At such times, he is
inclined to over-dramatize events. But can bring himself under control
despite his soulful discomfort when he needs to find a way out of a
crisis situation.

Expressive with his feelings. Knows how to deliver compliments. However,
for educational purposes, he criticizes more often than he praises, but
tries to do it in half-joking manner. As a result of his
impressionability, as well as the contradictory nature of his character,
it is rare that he achieves an inner balance. Finds it difficult to
maintain smooth and stable relationships with other people. In his heart
and soul he is a maximalist, and expects more than he can achieve. Thus,
he is inclined to often feel disappointed in people who were initially
sympathetic to him.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Very active, pressing ahead, enterprising person. Always "holds his
sails to the wind". Inclined to venturism, to plays on differences of
prices, to risks and games with the law. If he suffers a defeat, he
easily withdraws, putting forward other, less flexible partners. This is
one of the most unpredictable types. Easily works in trade and mediatory
structures, but not in production lines. Sharp changes in moods are
characteristic of him: if he feels himself good, then everyone must feel
good too, but if he feels himself bad then others must suffer it as
well. Strikes up friendships with people at closer personal distances.
Can create massive emotional pressuring. A good manager of his
household. Can realize himself in service jobs, for example as a waiter
at a restaurant, and as an actor, but only of light genres such as
comedy or operetta. Easily manipulates with relations, bringing other
people closer or farther away from him. Emotionally unstable, for this
reason often cannot coexist with others in peace. In case of failure can
quickly cause a provocation, then retreat into the shadow.



Ethical subtype Fi-ESFp (Fi-SEE)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

Active and mobile person. Willingly strikes up and moves around useful
social connections. Knows how to give compliments. Talks about his
possibilities and capabilities in much detail before people who are
close to him, likes to make an impression. Intimate intonations in his
voice, personal charm, and confidential manner of behavior, that
predisposes towards trust, allow him to quickly win over his
conversation partners. Often has convex eyes. His gestures are smooth
and confident. His poses seem a tad relaxed. Inclined to dress
unconventionally, brightly and extravagantly. Even if he has round forms
and inclination to excess weight, doesn't feel insecure over this and
dresses in anything that he likes to wear. Likes to sit in somewhat
scattered pose. His gait is elastic, prideful. Holds himself
confidently, even authoritatively alike a patron towards others.

**Character**

Has good organizational skills. Inclined to expand the circle of his
acquaintances and the field of his activity. Very curious. Strives to be
aware of what is going on, and, given the opportunity, likes to show off
his awareness of events. Interested in new approaches for resolution of
various problems and willingly promotes them. Facilitates the
introduction of new ideas into practice. Uses his authority and
influence. Purposeful, but flexible in relationships. Prefers to reach
agreements on mutually beneficial terms.

Exhibits large scope in his endeavors. Prefers to solve emerging problem
right away, else he can get distracted and then cool off towards them.
Inclined to take up many things at once, but doesn't manage to finish
everything due to lack of time, lack of interest, or his moods. Has a
poorly developed sense of measure, wants to do more than is possible.
Scattering his time and efforts on minor tasks, may miss out on those
that are more important and necessary. With difficulty discerns general
patterns and trends, so it can take on risky projects. Realizes his
projects into reality with much enthusiasm. Being defeated, does not
lose heart and soon finds a new application to his abilities.

A manager with good diplomatic skills. Able to persuade and mobilize
other people, to inspire them to some new business, or set others
against someone who hinders his interests. Usually, gets along well with
everyone. In conversation he is polite, courteous, gentle and kind.
Delivers plenty of compliments. Predisposes towards trust, creates an
atmosphere of intimacy and sincerity. Tries not to bring quarrels to a
serious resolution, can hold himself back in time. His democratic
behavior, easygoing manner, and personal charisma help him win the
sympathy of others.

In the society, he is often in the spotlight. Loves to tell about and to
discuss various recent events and news. Knows how to entertain his
companions. In need of admiration and recognition, as this stimulates
him to even greater activity and enterprise. Despite the fact that he
makes an impression of being a frank and sincere person, this openness
has limits beyond which he doesn't allow other people. Only a few people
enjoy having his full confidence.

In business he is practical and calculating. Always knows precisely what
he wants. Formally he may listen to advice, but makes decisions
??independently. Not economical in small things, but cautious when it
comes to large expenditure of material resources. At home, he is
accurate and neat, willingly tackles household problems. Requires
cleanliness and order from people close to him. Looks after his health
and his appearance. Aesthete, likes to dress with taste, values coziness
and comfort. Very attentive towards people who are close to him,
constantly takes care of them.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Places his bets and his trust on influential, reliable people, gradually
bridging the interpersonal distance with them, if they are useful.
Possesses a kind of snobbery, status, and authoritativeness. Needs to
have everything better  his office, his car, his country house, and so
on. A good worker, can manage people and relations within a team.
Pragmatic in his approach and good at making calculations. Not inclined
to adventurism and to risk. A good politician, feels people well and
pulls in the necessary persons. Plays a role of a thoughtful person who
is working on some important problem. Dresses with some more restraint
than the sensory subtype.



Additional Links
----------------

-  :doc:`Contact and Inert Subtypes by Meged and Ovcharov <contact_inert_subtypes>`
-  :doc:`Subtyping systems and related articles <subtype>`
-  :doc:`Romantic and Sexual Behavior of Quadras and Subtypes <romantic_quadra>`
