SEI subtypes
==================

Sensory subtype Si-ISFp (Si-SEI)
--------------------------------


Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

Calm and soft person in interaction. With his presence often pacifies
others. Industrious, practical, does everything with a sense of taste.
Often engages in fine arts as a hobby. Well-wishing, tactful,
unobtrusive. Tries to sympathize, to assist, to provide advice. Loves
rest and comfort. Likes talking about his perceptions and sensations.
Attentively questions his conversation partner in regard to his or her
affairs. Slightly delayed in his behavior and speech, sometimes
stretching out words and with difficulty forming clear thoughts. Even if
he speaks fast, he doesn't hurry to end the conversation. Able to speak
about the same subject with erudition, comprehensively and at great
length. Smiles with confidence, nods her or his head as a sign of
support. Movements are smooth, stylish, somewhat slow; may appear to
waddle and "walk like a duck". Undemonstrative, but clothes and
accessories nevertheless attract attention.

**Character**

Attentive and caring towards other people, considerate of their
convenience. Aware of harmony in communication. Inquisitive, collects
various information and shares it with others. Critically evaluates what
he hears. Does not like exaggeration, hype - needs facts and
justifications. He enjoys when someone argues with him a little,
enlivening the conversation, but poorly tolerates people who are
aggressive and avoids serious quarrels. In business matters prefers to
negotiate at an informal level. Knows how to patiently persuade a person
to take on a beneficial or profitable project, but doesn't always notice
which undertakings are actually promising. Thus, he can be hesitant in
starting on new projects, afraid of making mistakes and feeling at
fault. Values his peace and knows how to move away from any sources of
irritation.

Tries under any circumstances to not lose his sense of measure. Keeps
neutral in debates. Amiable, will try to find a method to find rapport
with most. Even when he has to insist on and defend his own opinions, he
is able to maintain good relations. Often acts as a peacekeeper, trying
to convince other people to agree to a compromise and come to mutual
accord. Doesn't find it easy to deny a person's request, to push someone
away, thus is often careful at the beginning of a conversation, and
dislikes people who are "sticky" and intrusive. With difficulty
determines what a person is capable of and what to expect from him,
though he appreciates talented and original individuals. Usually does
not criticize anyone and dislikes it when other people are criticized in
his presence. May be impatient as a listener. Does not like to compete
or to coerce others into doing things against their own will. Has
difficulties asserting and defending the interest of his business
matters if he is unable to find agreement on an informal level.

Able to describe events in great detail. Has good memory for sensations:
sounds, colors, and smells. Loves nature and good aesthetics in any
manifestation. Gravitates towards pleasant experiences. Dresses
tastefully. Has an inclination for following the latest styles. Loves
comfort and aesthetics, various original decorations. Industrious, loves
doing something with his hands. Everything that he takes up does with a
sense of taste investing his heart and soul. Does not like commitments
and giving promises, since he is afraid that he won't be able to fulfill
them. On some he can make an impression of a passive and inert person,
since he doesn't see the point in empty hassle and pointless expenditure
of efforts. Due to this, often acquires the reputation of a talented
slouch, who takes up a philosophical, contemplative stance in life.
Strives for good quality of life.

Warm, gentle, charming, seeks to be in accord and harmony with his
environment. Pays attention to manners and behavior of others and
evaluates them in his mind. Tries not to burden others with his
requests, asks for help only in extreme cases. Generally, will not
attempt to draw attention to himself when he feels that nobody is
interested in him. Dislikes talking about his failures. By nature
private, sensitive, and easily wounded. Turns for help only to people
who are close to him and who have proven themselves. Hospitable, likes
when food is cooked deliciously and served with appeal. If he is to
receive important guests or visitors, spends a lot of time and effort on
such occasions, and thus rarely agrees to such events.


Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is an appreciator of well-being, wealth and savoir vivre. Possess a
good aesthetic taste, which can show in his appearance, in the setup of
his interior, in activities of applied nature, such as artist who
depicts landscapes and still life. A hedonist, enjoys providing pleasure
to both himself and to other people, appreciates convenience. Looks
after his looks. Outwardly usually is more round and pudgy than the
initiating subtype.


Ethical subtype Fe-ISFp (Fe-SEI)
--------------------------------


Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

Seems lively, friendly, and unrestrained in conversation; emotionally
responsive, easily gives compliments and closes the distance, may even
take his conversation partner by his hand; his lack of restraint carries
a shade of familiarity. Shyness can alternate with joking remarks;
ironic quips easily turn into respectful and serious tone. Often jokes
and tells even unpleasant things with a smile as to not offend the other
person. Precautionary and careful. From time to time his temper flares
up, but he is quickly appeased and is forgiving. Usually optimistic,
merry, and upbeat. Likes to give and receive pleasure. Often gives
compliments to people and renders various services. Knows how to cheer
up or encourage someone. Seems carefree, for he is prone to hide his
negative emotions from others. Impatient and restless. Speaks quickly
and confidently, with imperative, declaring intonations. Has a quickly
moving gaze that notes everything, sometimes cursorily "shooting" side
to side, other times deep and meaningful. His movements are assured and
graceful but a bit gusty.

**Character**

Very appreciative of the joy of human interaction and all the other
pleasures of life. Skilled in his ability to do pleasant things and aims
to provide enjoyment for himself and for others. As a rule he is
helpful, friendly, sympathetic, and considerate. Often the soul of the
company. Hospitable, often knows how to cook well. Creates a relaxed,
informal, trustful atmosphere of communication. Cares for and attends to
others with elegance and ease, readily gives out compliments, uplifting
their mood and the general atmosphere. Able to cheer people up with
jokes and ruses. If he sees that someone is growing angry, he quickly
smooths out the bad impression of a failed joke thus preventing a
potential conflict.

Usually has many acquaintances, but fully relaxes and enjoys himself
only in a circle of close friends. Tries not to go where he is not
wanted. With unfamiliar people he is somewhat cautious and reserved.
Does not like people who are cold and arrogant, with whom he cannot
create an atmosphere of intimacy and informality. Becomes anxious when
he is dealing with someone who is unpleasant to him; in such cases his
speech at times becomes hurried and indistinct. Not prone to
insubordination; avoids his superiors and boring strictly business
conversations. If he is feeling sick or is in a bad mood, he retreats
not wanting to burden others with his problems.

Trying to lift the mood and vitality of those around him, he assumes a
position that he is sincerely indignant at their passivity and inaction.
If his cheers and jokes have no effect, he is able to prick with a word
such that it finally gets him the desired reaction. Sometimes, in the
interest of the matter, he assumes a harsh and severe look. In such
cases it is difficult to understand whether he is joking or being
serious. Well versed in the nuances of feelings of others and willingly
demonstrates his own, due to which he is usually popular among the
opposite sex.

Internally inconsistent and very dependent on his state. Pays attention
to problems and tries to resolve them as soon as possible; cannot stand
uncertainty and doubt. Impatient, finds it difficult to wait for the
natural outcome of events, prefers to speed things up. He is inclined to
make hasty decisions and take reckless actions. Clever and resourceful,
does not lose himself under any circumstances. Quickly notices
weaknesses and deficiencies of a person or a situation and can depict
them in a humorous light. Tries to create and cultivate useful ties and
contacts, but sometimes doesn't have enough tolerance and diplomacy.

Plays the role of someone without problems. Sufficiently optimistic.
Failures for him seem like they do not deserve attention. Leads an
active way of life. When occupied by some business matter, sometimes he
fusses and hustles, even though actual business activity lends itself to
him with difficulty. Cannot occupy with one thing for a long time. Often
changes his hobbies and occupations, tries his hand at various
activities. He does not like meticulous sedentary work, but willingly
takes on an interesting to him assignment and carries it out with great
enthusiasm. However, may also suddenly lose interest and grow cold and
not carry it through. Often frustrates other people with his
disorganization, but it's difficult to remain angry at him.


Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ethics of emotions is intensified - emotional, easily comes into contact
with people, finds it easy to join any company to the point of appearing
to be an extrovert. Artistic, often takes on a role of an inciter and a
provocateur. Finds his inspiration in creative amateur artistic
activity, can be a musician, an actor, an advertising agent, or a poet.
Loves comfortable spacious clothes, of which he is not too demanding,
can go around with a shoddy look.


Additional Links
----------------

-  `Discussion of SEI (ISFp)
   subtypes <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/12873-Discussion-of-SEI-subtypes-(ISFp)>`_
-  :doc:`Contact and Inert Subtypes by Meged and Ovcharov <contact_inert_subtypes>`
-  :doc:`Subtyping systems and related articles <subtype>`
-  :doc:`Romantic and Sexual Behavior of Quadras and Subtypes <romantic_quadra>`