SEI Profile by Gulenko
==========================


   
General description
-------------------

The SEI is usually friendly and pleasant in communication. Very
considerate of his own conveniences and those of others. Attentive and
caring in relation to his close ones. Often takes the position of the
"golden mean" in a work group. Loves beautiful objects and images, and a
familiar, comfortable atmosphere.

Emotional, internally attuned to others, responsive. Seeks to cheer up
others with jokes, games, witty comments, and clever retorts. Tries not
to get drawn into debates and arguments, wants to be in good relations
with everyone. Knows how to negotiate with people in an informal
environment.

Hides his own problems. Shows courage and optimism. Won't make promises
if he's not certain that he will be able to carry them out. Wary of
people who are intrusive and who could take away his time.

Works at a pace most convenient to himself. He works productively only
if he is working for himself and for the people he's interested in. In
other cases, the SEI won't burden himself too much and will try to avoid
strenuous expenditures of effort. His productivity is heavily dependent
on his mood. Will try to evade boring but necessary work.


Detailed description
--------------------

The SEI is a person of habitual pleasures and simple joys of life. Very
considerate of habits and conveniences of other people. Won't trespass
on someone else's calm state. Shows concern for the health and
well-being of people close to him. Surrounds himself with little
pleasant things. Dresses simply and in good taste. Rejects extremes in
appearance. Generally stays out of the limelight - doesn't distinguish
himself as the best, but neither will he lag behind. Knows how to get
along with many different people, as he's usually takes the middle
position. Explores the world of objects - likes to take an object into
his hands, to touch it, to sense its physical qualities. For a long time
remembers his impressions. Easily manipulates and works with objects,
gravitating towards those things which are at least somewhat familiar to
him.

Understands the reasons and causes for people's emotions. Knows how to
cheer up or to anger a particular person. In communication of informal
nature, SEI is usually friendly, demonstrates optimism. Loves to have
fun in a close circle of friends. Seeks to cheer up others with jokes,
hints, allusions, and pranks. Considers different ways of getting
positive emotions. Prefers to abstain from disputes and controversies,
as he wishes to get along with everyone. Collects various stories,
rumors, sensational or otherwise interesting information, and shares
them with his friends. He's usually aware of the social happenings of
his circle.

SEI's movements seem non-hurried, measured, gradual. Interacting with
others, he doesn't spare his time, knows how to prolong pleasant
meetings and conversations. Does not like people who are always busy,
always in a hurry. Has good memory for holiday dates, birthday days of
his relatives and friends, and does not forget to congratulate them in
time. Time usually works for him: that which he can't do now, he will
make up in the future. Dislikes being tied to deadlines, neither is he
distinguished by punctuality. Does everything at a pace that is most
convenient to him. Will always find reasons for being late. Delays with
making the final decision until the last minute. Internally, the SEI is
quite changeable and vacillating person. He needs to be encouraged and
prodded to start and finish his work on time.

Works productively if other people are waiting for his assistance. Very
much needs for his efforts to get noticed and appreciated. If he is not
praised, if the results of his work are not distinguished by positive
relations, he feels offended internally, though may not show this.
Industrious person. With pleasure takes on the role of obtaining and
providing the necessary supplies, furnishing any space. Tries
exceptionally hard before administrative checks or receptions of guests
or visitors. Resourceful and active in designing and setting up his own
living space. Likes to experiment in this area, to come up with
something of his own. Solves business questions through friends and
acquaintances, through informal channels. The more enterprising and
venturesome he is, the more ties and connections he makes. However, his
natural laziness puts a limit to the number of his contacts. Keeps only
those contacts that bring him some benefit. Very attached to his
occupation, his field of activity. Has a hard time changing professions
and disrupting his habitual rhythm of work.

The SEI poorly tolerates monotony. He needs alternatives to boring
everyday life, a possibility to make a choice. Greatly enjoys himself if
he finds a way out of dead-end, seemingly hopeless situations.
Interested in unusual and extraordinary people who have many ideas and
make bold proposals. Boring, mundane people strain him; he tries to
avoid their company. He is tolerant of eccentrics and inventors, all
those people who are "not of this world". He views them like children,
looks after them graciously forgiving their antics.

The SEI receives and understands chaotic information poorly. It makes
him confused, throws him off track, may even spoil his mood. The SEI
likes it when someone makes a connections between specific events and
general concepts. His self-esteem improves from becoming aware of his
own usefulness, that without him it won't do. Likes to correspond to the
place or role allotted to him. Activates when he is given a clear goal
and explained the trajectory of action. Ways of achieving it he will
find himself. Doesn't need "bare" facts, instructions, explanations. The
main thing for him is to like the system, that it would evoke a positive
response in him. Then he becomes collected and organized.

The SEI is dependent on how the forces have been distributed in a given
situation. Capable of foreseeing possible hostility or acts of
aggression, disturbances in balance of power, the loss of stability.
Critical of people who are sluggish, inert, apathetic. Tries to mobilize
them, to make them active, calls them to take decisive and rapid action.
Sensitively reacts to volitional pressuring. In a crude, power-oriented
situation responds with analogous degree of aggressiveness. Won't allow
himself to be abused, or for someone to take advantage of his generally
agreeable nature. Knows when to put pressure and when to ease up, but
does not seek to control anyone. The burden of power for him is too
heavy load to carry. It is enough for him to be able to defend his own
interests.

In relations to individuals whom the SEI likes, and who reciprocate it,
he is very attentive, considerate, and helpful. Demonstrates his
sympathies not by word but by deeds. The SEI feels uncomfortable to
demand or seek something for himself. He feels much more motivated if he
is doing something based on requests and needs of others. But while at
this, he won't forget about himself either. To set things into motion
the SEI needs to understand who is relates to him positively. Everything
else - are technicalities. Apprehensiveness, tension, poor relation,
deprive him of the wish and the ability to do anything. The SEI is a
good intermediary in negotiations and trade transactions. Knows how to
distribute goods through informal ties. His relations are closely
intertwined with questions of work or business.


Manner of communication
-----------------------

The SEI interacts with people at close personal distances. Usually he is
sociable, charming, has friendly manners. Knows how to become liked, how
to gain people's sympathies and trust. The nature of SEI's communication
is very democratic. Despite the fact that externally the SEI may seem
like a mild and soft person, he can exert pressure on others through
emotions and words. Sometimes notes of harshness appear in his voice,
and the expression on his face becomes austere. Inclined to give advice
of the kind: "Don't sit around in one place", "Achieve everything by
your own work", "You have to hustle, spin around ...". If a person
doesn't go for contact with him, he doesn't impose himself. Usually
makes only one attempt. Seeks to interact with people who are
interesting. Cannot make himself interact with a person who evokes
antipathy in him, even in the interest of shared business. In such
conversations, he loses all his charm and friendliness, his speech
becomes muted, vague, inexpressive. Likes to collect interesting bits of
information and rumors and pass them on to others. Cannot re-tell a
story or repeat something exactly many times, will add something from
his own imagination. Due to this may seed emotional instability.
Interested in magazines of tabloid nature. Doesn't impose his problems
on anyone else. When asked how he is doing, will answer that everything
is fine. Can talk for a long time on same topic. Talks about what he
sees around him, what has happened to him, about everything that was
enjoyable and fun. Dislikes giving promises. To help requests usually
replies in the following manner: "I cannot promise you, but I will try
..." or "If I have the opportunity, I will do it". If he doesn't fulfill
his promise, apologizes until he senses that he has been forgiven.


Features of behavior
--------------------

The most important feature of SEI's behavior that is easy to notice if
observe him for some time - is inclination for various pleasant
pastimes. The SEI wishes to experience everything in his life, all the
best from the surrounding atmosphere, from beautiful items, from great
food and pleasant ways to spend time. Very much enjoys spending time
talking with his friends. Can get a rise from them by a variety of
humor, hints, allusions, and ruses. Doesn't like to spend time where he
ends up being in the shadow. With his independence and paradoxical
behavior often baffles and confuses others and evokes negative emotions
in them. Because of this he may considered a lightweight, non-serious
person. Does not like long business meetings and various other boring
events. Has a tendency to reach agreements and strike up contracts on an
informal basis. While at this, he uses only tried-and-tested and
reliable connections. Very economical and industrious. Likes to make
repairs, to do something with his hands, to take on other household
matters. Likes taking various objects into his hands and sensing their
physical properties. Another feature of behavior that allows to identify
an SEI - is the propensity to keep in the middle, to not distinguish
himself among the best, but also not be among the worst. For this reason
he dislikes criticizing people aloud, does not intervene in arguments,
tries to keep away from his bosses, and to be friendly with all. Can
work productively only if he is working for himself, towards his own
goals. In all other cases, doesn't over-burden himself with work, avoids
strenuous physical exertion, doesn't force himself to anything. In the
later case, the SEI may earn the reputation of being a "talented
slacker".

Appearance
----------

In terms of appearance SEI's facial expression and figure are notable.
Their features differ between different `SEI subtypes <SEI_subtypes>`__.
SEI with accentuated ethical component is easily recognized. He is
distinguished by a full, round figure, short legs, and slightly dancing
gait, which makes an impression of an "elastic ball". The shape of SEI's
face is often round or square, with no outstanding, protruding parts.
Sometimes the nose is upwardly snubbed, creating an impression of a
"duck nose". Eyes are also round. When SEI is trying to explain
something, his eyebrows become raised up. Due to this he often has
transverse wrinkles on his forehead. Mouth is slightly curved in a
nervous line. In moments of emotional conversation, when the SEI is
telling about something, he often swallows air with his mouth like a
fish. :doc:`Sensing subtype <SEI_subtypes>` of SEI has an elongated shape
of face. This subtype is characterized by a sudden frozen, solid
expression on his face, suddenly appearing harshness when he wants to
increase the psychological distance, putting a person in his place. The
sensing subtype of SEI differs from the :doc:`ethical subtype <SEI_subtypes>` by a more developed aesthetic sense of taste.
His clothes are often characterized by neatness and harmonious
combination of colors. The SEI of ethical subtype makes an impression of
comfort, as if he has just left the apartment in a comfy home set of
clothes.


As a subordinate
----------------

| **Strengths**
| Possesses good taste and sense of measure and proportion. Can assess
  the quality of any product and explain in detail why it is convenient
  or inconvenient. Caring and attentive to others, considerate of their
  well-being. Diplomatic - capable of persuading someone else to take on
  the necessary project. Establishes and maintains comfortable states
  within his sphere. SEI is able to relax, enjoy the everyday flow of
  life, value small pleasures. If he likes his work and is paid well, he
  does it qualitatively, pouring his heart and soul into it. Tries in
  all situations to not lose his sense of measure. Can do a lot with his
  hands. Perceptive of the state of another person and can adapt himself
  to meet it. Friendly, attentive, and sympathetic with everyone.
  Strives towards high levels in material conditions of living. Usually
  does not impose his will. Reluctantly delivers criticisms and does not
  like it when people criticize others. On teams takes a position of
  "golden mean".

| **Problem areas**
| SEI finds it difficult to be involved in pressing, stressful business
  activity, to be active, mobile, and dynamic for prolonged periods of
  time. At times he is lax and disorganized. Secretive and vulnerable.
  Can show obvious discontent if someone disturbs his state. At such
  moments can be indignant, respond harshly. Sufficiently lazy; if he is
  not interested in his work, and it does not promise any benefits for
  him, can bluff and feign. Dislikes pointless commotion, hustle and
  bustle, and empty waste of efforts. He does not like hype and
  exaggerations - needs facts and evidence. Tries to elude his
  supervisors and avoids dry, boring, strictly business conversations.
  Finds it difficult to show the forcefulness and perseverance needed to
  actively defend the interests of his project. Poor health greatly
  reduces his productivity. Sometimes pretends that he can do much when
  it is not possible.

From him one cannot demand and expect:

-  continuous energetic involvement in business activity;
-  high levels of consistency and organization in work;
-  uncompromising advocacy of the interests of the project;
-  ability to lead a large team and designate roles and
   responsibilities;
-  participation in risky, aggressive operations.

Recommended occupations: The Mediator best realizes himself in the
social sphere. He is well capable of establishing and maintaining
beneficial business contacts. Successful in spheres where he needs to
look out for needs of a specific individual. SEI is a specialist in
creating and maintaining the infrastructure of society. He is the best
supplier, trader of small wholesale, director of a small company, the
manager-diplomat. Mediators work well in advertising and publishing,
medical and service spheres. They make good quality evaluators,
designers, and organizers.


As a supervisor
---------------

A person of this type is usually sociable, amiably predisposed towards
others, shows sincere interest in people who respond to him with
reciprocity, feels the need to help others.

| Supervisor-diplomat
| A diplomat should be able to capture the smallest nuances of people's
  interactions, take note of small parts and details that could affect
  the course of events and use them to build friendly, cooperative
  relations. "Mediator" is the type of leader who relies on his superior
  knowledge of the situation. He is always aware of information that
  circulates in his social circle, and therefore he most often knows
  whom and how to influence. Sensitively reacts to anything that can
  prove to be useful later. Prefer to resolve many problems on an
  informal basis. To accomplish this, he arranges confidential meeting
  within the circle of his trusted associates. In this manner he
  compensates for his inability to manage the situation by purely
  administrative methods.

The aim to solve many complicated problems informally is the core line
of conduct and organizing principle of SEI's interaction with colleagues
and subordinates. He prefers to interact with his colleagues on basis of
trust; without this he feels uncomfortable*. Emotionally dependent. His
emotions are associated with altruistic and communicative needs. In
accordance with this disposition, SEI tries to act by methods of
persuasion. He sees harmonization of relations in the team as his goal.

[translator's note: communication style of all of the IxFx types are is
characterized as "sincere/soulful": link]

Works well in conditions where there is no rush, where nothing violates
the rhythm of life. Supervisor-diplomat avoids risky undertakings and
displays of business activity - he is not eager for power and does not
abuse it. This is due to the fact that his own interests go far beyond
the scope of professional activities. This sociotype feels his value not
only in relation to work and pragmatic activity, but also far outside of
its bounds.

Any conflict for "Mediator" is a source of stress, even if he was not
its instigator. In a conflict situation, he is prepared to yield first
and accept a compromise. Often, such a concession is made even if it is
detrimental to the objective interests of the group of interests of
people of the group. As a result, he may lose the respect of others of
his collective*. [translator's note: this part of the description is
hinting at "democratic" inclinations of this sociotype i.e. acting
independently of the common cause]

A characteristic feature of the sociotype "Mediator" in a supervisory
position is the desire to improve the morale of the group, to foster the
development of personal relations within it, to create a sense of
belonging in each member of the organization as a whole. This style is
most suitable for managing a group whose members already possess the
basic skills and necessary qualifications, and approach their work
responsibly and with discipline. In this case, an important function is
to ensure that the psychological climate in the group remains favorable
for efficient operation.

Main characteristics:

-  Can adequately show himself in the role of the frontal, emotional
   leader.
-  Method of establishing contacts is focused on personal factors.
-  Business activity is expressed in judiciousness, prevention of risky
   steps.
-  Interaction with employees is based on the principle of collegiality.
   A search for an emotional connection.
-  Type of behavior predisposed to compromises. Capable of active
   cooperation if he is interacting with enterprising in this respect
   partner who takes initiative.
-  Makes sure his activities are consistent with accepted ethical and
   professional standards of conduct.
-  Achieves major results by creating a favorable psychological climate
   in the team.
-  Motives and objective: good and well-wishing intentions, commitment
   to ethical values. Income within the framework of permissible ethics.
-  Attitude to the law: the law is complemented by ethical standards.
-  Strategy: assumes the responsibilities of a leader in dealing with
   and resolving ethical issues.


Working conditions
------------------

The impetus for SEI is welfare, that is, an opportunity to live "not
worse than others", to create a comfortable atmosphere at home with the
money that he makes. Material well-being gives him a sense of stability
and confidence in tomorrow. Therefore, you should never entrust him with
work for which you won't be able to pay when it's due. He doesn't care
for rank and titles; he doesn't want to burden himself with excessive
responsibility.

Calm, even routine work, which he can complete with ease and even
creatively, and for which will earn what is due - this is ideal for the
"Mediator". Since SEI is a type that thinks concretely, good working
conditions, where his workplace is well equipped and comfortable, are
important for him. He himself will take care of this, just don't stand
in his way. The SEI can't always tell what, when, and in which sequence
should be done. Therefore, you will have to look over these aspects of
his activities and the timetable. And also, see to it that he doesn't
ignore the uninteresting but nevertheless important parts of work (most
often these are preliminary consultations and examination of the
project, as well operations that require a lot of effort.) It is better
if you do these parts yourself or assign someone more suitable to carry
them out.

Recommendations for self-improvement
------------------------------------

Your strong point is the ability to select for activities and
occupations that you truly enjoy, which bring joy, enjoyment and
pleasant experiences. You are irreplaceable for organization of leisure
and relaxation with friends. Delicious food, beautiful tableware,
interior design, as well as a warm, relaxed atmosphere of communication
- this is where you show yourself creatively. You know how to derive joy
from life and how to share it with others. You prefer a beautiful
natural landscape that resonates with internal state of your soul to
more active ways of spending your time.

You are generally a diplomatic and agreeable person. Therefore, you are
able to avoid arguments and conflicts. You are tolerant of other
people's shortcomings, gentle and responsive in communication, you
dislike applying crude pressure on anyone. Your behavior evokes pleasant
emotions in others. You possess a good sense of humor, cheerful,
easy-going disposition. You know how to take a growing conflict and turn
it into a joke.

Your main problemlack of consistent performance, inability and
unwillingness to force yourself to do uninteresting, difficult, but
necessary work. You dislike formal settings, prefer to negotiate with
others privately, relying on tried and tested contacts. Develop in
yourself a more proactive attitude towards life. Refer to the saying:
"Business first, pleasure afterwards".

Concern and think more about the interests of other people, help them
with deeds and not words. Ensure that your personal interests coincide
with the interests of the common cause.

Try to overcome inertia in yourself. Don't hesitate to spend some of
your efforts on doing socially beneficial things that do not promise
immediate returns or benefits to you specifically. Then people will
develop more respect for you and view you as an trustworthy partner.

Another one of your problemsinsufficient farsightedness. You cannot
always properly evaluate distant, future prospects of present moment
undertakings, such that you often end up "sitting on the fence" and
waiting, focusing only immediate, guaranteed returns. In such cases, you
risk to win in small things but miss out on larger, more substantial
chances and opportunities.

Be careful when giving promisesdon't offer something you wish for as
something you can actually do. Don't overestimate the potential of your
projects, don't try to excessively advertise and praise them, or others
won't consider you to be a serious person. Be consistent in your
decisions, plan more regularly, don't limit yourself by your instincts
and improvisation. Bring started tasks and projects to their completion
so as not to let down yourself and others.
