Semi-duality
==============

*See also* :doc:`Semi-duality observations <semi_dual_observations>`
*Back to* :doc:`Intertype relations <intertype>`



Introduction
------------

Relations of **semi-duality** are one of incomplete or "deficient"
:doc:`duality <duality>`, when both parties are usually in agreement and on
friendly terms. Semi-duals, can show great interest in each other, which
is multiplied if they also find each other attractive. Unfortunately,
harmony can dissolve quickly when one of the pair makes a blunder of
some sort, be it socially or etiquette related. Fortunately, semi-dual
partners often have much to talk about in their conversations and these
conversations do not seem boring to the participants. There is the added
benefit of the inability of the pair to stay angry with each other for
long.

Some leading socionists have quipped relationships of semi-duality "the
moth and the flame". The couple is invariably attracted to each other,
but repeatedly "burned" by each other. To some onlookers these relations
may seem especially passionate and loving.

Descriptions by various authors
-------------------------------

**Valentina Meged, Anatoly Ovcharov**

Partners are attentive to each other's problems and responsive to
proposals to collaborate. However, in joint work there is a lack of
concert and displays of individualism and stubbornness. Advice,
requests, and complaints are usually received and interpreted correctly.
It seems that the semi-dual partner is ready to put them into action but
in a way that's not always acceptable to both. Each semi-dual partner
takes care of his or her own interests and conveniences first, and only
later concerns with ensuring the comfort of the other person. The
differences in views of semi-duals inspire them to become interested in
one another. One's semi-dual seems mysterious, unpredictable, and
somewhat difficult to understand. It may feel like he or she is holding
back on something, not saying things in full, that you catch only a part
of what he or she is saying. At closer personal distances, due to the
difference of worldviews and consequent arguments that arise due to
this, partners start to feel tired of their interaction. However, once
they take a break from one another reconciliation happens quickly.

**I.D. Vaisband, publications on Socionics**

Semi-duality is often an attractive type of relations. However,
periodically there are sudden lapses in understanding which occur
seemingly for no good reason. Making up and restoring these relations
usually happens quickly and easily. When semi-duals meet and discuss
their plans and affairs, everything progresses well, no worse than in a
dual pair. However, when they begin to implement their plans they
discover that there exists a sphere in which both are ineffective and
don't know what to do. Thus, they cannot fully help each other; they
complement one another only half way. Since full compensation is not
attainable, partners may feel disappointed in one another.

**O.B. Slinko, "The key to heart - Socionics"**

It is difficult to coordinate actions in these relations because the
"implementation" functions of partners are different. In general, it can
be said that a semi-dual is not half of a dual but even less than that.
Nevertheless, these relations are quite favorable. Semi-duals can help
each solve their problems if discussions are not restricted only to
theory. At the same time, your semi-dual can surprise you by an
unexpected action, which introduces tension and stress into this
relationship. In the course of development of these relations, during
periods of mutual understanding partners become closer, but this
understanding breaks down when it comes to implementation and
coordination of their actions.

**R.K. Sedih, "Informational psychoanalysis"**

In these relations there is always an opportunity to help one another.
This is especially easy when the focus is on functions that the partners
share in common. These functions promote semi-duals to become close,
however, other aspects of these relations may be rough. If the
circumstances are favorable, partners will have time to get to know and
get used to one another and establish a strong connection. In such
conditions, they can learn to avoid the pitfalls of this type of
relations. Semi-duality can be very exquisite and deep type of
relations, which is why some socionists point out that it is best to be
with a good semi-dual rather than a poor dual.

**Laima Stankevichyute "Intertype relations"**

This type of relations can be interesting, but there is a lack of
understanding that may occur very suddenly and unpredictably. It seems
that everything is going well, then suddenly for no apparent reason it
is as if relations halt: both partners stall, feel unsure of how to
proceed further, and may even start blaming one another. While
reconciliation is usually quick and easy, it is unpredictable when the
next such misunderstanding and lapse in relations will occur.

**A.V. Bukalov, G. Boiko, "Why Saddam Hussein made a mistake, or what is
Socionics"**

Often these relations lead to friendship and fruitful cooperation at
work, but closing of distance leads to an imbalance and disappointments.
Semi-dual partners may start to view each other as egoistical. For
example, an LSI does not like when his things are being touched, and his
dual type EIE as an intuitive type does not bother with his things,
while his semi-dual ESE will try to arrange them to his own manner,
which is aggravating for the LSI. The ESE at the same time doesn't
understand why his semi-dual partner is so upset.

**Victor Gulenko, "Criteria of reciprocity"**

*Cautious comfort*

Interesting relations, in which the partners are afraid to get closer
because they feel that by doing so comfort will dissipate. After
pleasantly communicating for some time, the partners don't know how to
proceed next. At times, partners privaely take note some unpleasant
moments in behavior of each other. However, these unpleasant moments and
hurdles are often not discussed openly and not brought up to attention
of the partner. In matters of duties and responsibilities, the work is
usually distributed according to temperament. Disagreements are usually
resolved through compromise and through mutual concessions.

*Binary signs of intertype relations*

Semi-duality is much more difficult to establish than duality. Getting
closer is not easy and takes a long period of time. Third parties
generate confusion and disturb emotional balance in a semi-dual pair.
Insularity in this pair promotes its stability.

In semi-dual relations, mutual comfort and convenience are of primary
importance. Misunderstandings in communication periodically disturb
these relations. There is an impression that in these relations fate
plays a special role - some irrational principle seems to define their
development. Physical health of partners may likewise fluctuate.

Turbulent emotional atmosphere is destructive to semi-dual relations.
They must be imbued with the spirit of cooperation, reason and benefit
derived from mutual undertakings, as well as united opposition waged
against external hardships and dangers. There should be fewer emotional
outbursts and more productive undertakings, then semi-duality will
strengthen and provide for a special kind of charm of unemotional
comfort.

Semi-duality relations exacerbate in partners awareness of their body,
their physical condition. Relaxation in semi-duality relationship is not
as easy as in dual relations. Material well-being of the pair is
provided by collaborative effort. This especially concerns the cases
when semi-duality combines two intuitive types. Semi-duals are able to
realistically assess their chances of success and take up only those
matters that will bring quick benefits.

Dynamics of semi-dual relations are perceived by both partners acutely.
There is a sharp contrast between leisure and work. Disruptions in
relations usually cause more confusion than in duality relations.
Partners are as if drawn to make relations more dynamic and do things
which are surprising for the other.

Semi-dual relations contribute to the preservation of one's own
individuality. In these relations partners hone their personal skills.
While they may consult with each other, each leads his or her own
affairs. Relations can be well managed and have a tendency for
self-correction.

*Advice for getting along*

Be patient, don't force events. Remember that getting close to each
other is a very slow process in these relations. Try to spend more free
time together. In semi-dual relations there is intensification of
physical sensitivity and desire for tangible contact.

Be more considerate in relation to each other. Avoid anything that can
cause emotional instability. Deal with disagreements right away. Try to
rely more on logic. Avoid middle-men in these relations and deal with
each other directly. Protect one another from negative influence of any
hostile people.

In semi-dual relations there are periodic break downs caused by the fact
that partners will try to process their feelings separately and
individually concerning the same events. In this case, don't show much
emotions - positive or negative - simply switch your attention to the
next subject.

**V.V. Gulenko, A.V. Molodtsev, "Introduction to socionics"**

Relations of incomplete duality. In words, the understanding between the
partners is very good and motives are clear. However, the extrovert
partner has a tendency to not listen to introvert partner and continues
developing his own topics. But the introvert is rarely offended by this
and as as a rule finds ways to adapt. In semi-duality there are always
many topics for conversation and conversation does not get boring. If
semi-duals are of opposite sex they may feel attraction towards each
other, especially if their subtypes are compatible: both are rational or
irrational subtypes (ex: Ne-ILE and Si-SLI, or Ti-ILE and Te-SLI), and
attempt to get closer. Somewhere in the middle of this process, one of
them commits and action that abruptly increases the distance and re-sets
boundaries. However, partners are not much discouraged and continue
their attempts to become closer, only to once again run into a bump on a
seemingly even path. Looking from aside it seems like here lies true
passion, the flames of love are burning wildly. This aspect of semi-dual
relations is depicted very well by the following poem: "Into the window
the moths fly towards the fire, splattering against the glass but not
losing hope". Semi-dual relations invigorate partners, keep them in
state of constant readiness. This tonic effect is achieved due to
periodic shocks that do not let them relax. These relations can be
compared to getting splashed by cold water after the person has just
woken up and gotten out of bed. Comfort levels with such a partner can
be very contrasting: happiness of being close on one side and
bewilderment and confusion on the other.

**Ekaterina Filatova "Art of understanding yourself and others"**

Just as in duality, in these relations support is given from the 1st
channel to the 4th channel of both partners, but there is no
compensation on the other two functions. Thus when semi-dual partners
meet, make plans, talk over their matters, everything is fine, no worse
than in dual relations. But when they try to implement their plans, it
appears that there is same area where both are weak (albeit in different
ways: E/I "-version" of functions of the third channel is different),
according to this, on these functions partners cannot effectively help
each other. Since there is no full compensation, at sufficiently close
distance there may be certain mutual disappointment.

**Eugene Gorenko, Vladimir Tolstikov, "Nature of self"**

There are very good relations, but unlike duality here partners cannot
provide full support for each other and make up for the shortcomings of
the other. If the partners have to engage in a common project, in some
areas both exhibit the same kind of incompetence. As a result, started
work often can not be brought to successful finish, which leads to
mutual resentment.

**Sergei Ganin**

These are relations of deficient Duality. Semi-Duality partners usually
have no problems in understanding each other or each other's objectives,
at least when these objectives are only on paper. When it comes to
fulfilling joint plans, partners often fail to co-operate. The extrovert
partner hardly listens to the introvert, concentrating more on the sound
of their own voice. However, the introvert partner does not get upset
about this and they often seem to find a way to adapt to it. Semi-Duals
usually have many topics for conversation and these conversations do not
seem to be boring.

Semi-Duals, especially if they are different in gender, can show
interest in each other, which is multiplied if in addition they find
each other attractive. However, when they feel like they are half way to
complete understanding, one of them usually does something, not
deliberately of course, that ruins all established harmony putting the
partners right back to where they started. This is how incomplete
Duality manifests itself.

Semi-Duality partners cannot stay upset with each other for a long time.
After partners have calmed down, they attempt to get closer to each
other again which unfortunately leads to another stumble. For the
observer, these relations may seem really passionate and loving.
Relations of Semi-Duality can be compared with the moth and the flame.

If not taken seriously, these relations can produce a little periodical
shaking, keeping the partners "awake". Relations of Semi-Duality are
also full of contrasts: from being happy to see partner again to sudden
disappointment and bewilderment.


Semi-dual pairs
---------------

-  :doc:`ILE <ILE>` and :doc:`SLI <SLI>`
-  :doc:`SEI <SEI>` and :doc:`IEE <IEE>`
-  :doc:`ESE <ESE>` and :doc:`LSI <LSI>`
-  :doc:`LII <LII>` and :doc:`EIE <EIE>`
-  :doc:`SLE <SLE>` and :doc:`ILI <ILI>`
-  :doc:`IEI <IEI>` and :doc:`SEE <SEE>`
-  :doc:`LIE <LIE>` and :doc:`EII <EII>`
-  :doc:`ESI <ESI>` and :doc:`LSE <LSE>`


Theoretical properties of semi-duality
--------------------------------------

Semi-dual types share their preference for either Rationality or
Irrationality. Rational semi-dual types differ on :doc:`Jungian dichotomy <jungian>` of Logic / Ethics, while Irrational
semi-dual types differ on Intuition / Sensing. Among semi-dual types one
partner is always an introvert and the other an extrovert.



Model A
~~~~~~~

Functions 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 reflect on functions 5, 8, 7, 6, 1, 4,
3, 2.

.. list-table:: Functions of :doc:`Model A <model_a>`
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Partner 1
      - Partner 2
    * - :ref:`base function <leading-func>`
      - :ref:`suggestive function <suggestive-func>`
    * - :ref:`creative function <creative-func>`
      - :ref:`demonstrative function <demonstrative-func>`
    * - :ref:`role function <role-func>`
      - :ref:`ignoring function <ignoring-func>`
    * - :ref:`vulnerable function <PoLR-func>`
      - :ref:`mobilizing function <activating-func>`



Reinin traits
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As with all non-identical types, semi-duals have exactly 7 :doc:`Reinin traits <reinin_dich>` in common, with the remaining 8 not in common.

Rational semi-duals:

* **In Common**: |jp| · |PN| · |AD| · |NS| · |YO| · |TS| · |MS|
* **Not in Common**: |TF| · |CF| · |CE| · |JD| · |EI| · |SD| · |DA| · |PR|

Irrational semi-duals:

* **In Common**: |jp| · |PN| · |AD| · |TF| · |CF| · |CE| · |JD|
* **Not in Common**: |NS| · |YO| · |TS| · |MS| · |EI| · |SD| · |DA| · |PR|

External links
--------------

-  `Relations of Semi-Duality <http://www.socionics.com/rel/sdl.htm>`_ by :doc:`Sergei Ganin <ganin>`


.. |EI| replace:: :doc:`extraversion and introversion <extra_intro>`
.. |DA| replace:: :doc:`democratic and aristocratic <democratic_aristocratic>`
.. |TS| replace:: :doc:`tactical and strategic <tactical_strategic>`
.. |CE| replace:: :doc:`constructivist and emotivist <constructivist_emotivist>`
.. |PN| replace:: :doc:`positivist and negativist <positivist_negativist>`
.. |JD| replace:: :doc:`judicious and decisive <judicious_decisive>`
.. |MS| replace:: :doc:`merry and serious <merry_serious>`
.. |NS| replace:: :doc:`sensing and intuition <sensing_intuition>`
.. |TF| replace:: :doc:`ethics and logic <ethics_logic>`
.. |jp| replace:: :doc:`rationality and irrationality <ration_irration>`
.. |CF| replace:: :doc:`carefree and farsighted <carefree_farsighted>`
.. |YO| replace:: :doc:`yielding and obstinate <yielding_obstinate>`
.. |SD| replace:: :doc:`static and dynamic <statics_dynamics>`
.. |PR| replace:: :doc:`process and result <process_result>`
.. |AD| replace:: :doc:`asking and declaring <asking_declaring>`
