SLE subtypes
==============

Sensory subtype Se-ESTp (Se-SLE)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

Seems clever, impulsive, seemingly concealing within him a latent
threat. Far from being easygoing and appeasable. In reality, he can be
sharp, sufficiently aggressive, and persistent. Can hold a grudge and be
sufficiently resourceful to make the life of his ill-wishers become
intolerable. Has a contrasting and unpredictable character. With those
whom he loves can be kind, tender, even sentimental. Possesses a sense
of humor, that easily molds into sarcasm and caustic irony. Talkative,
charming, witty, critical and sharp. Likes epithets and slang
expressions. His movements are springy and fast. Gait is somewhat
waddling, with knees slightly bent, which yields a stealthy feline
semblance. Has a characteristic evaluating gaze with slight squint.
Usually looks after his health, periodically takes up physical sport,
exercise of gymnastics. Dresses expensively and with taste. Most often
he makes a bright impression of a self-assured and prospering person.

**Character**

Insistent, energetic, resolute person. While trying to achieve his
goals, he acts both directly and through intermediaries. As a rule, he
is capable of becoming the winner. Knows how to manage people, can
impose on them his wishes and will, to involve and draw them in by
useful and interesting projects and tasks. Knows how to be liked and how
to please others: charming, possesses a sense of humor, a good
conversationalist. Natural leader: needs competition, struggle, passion,
victory, without these his vitality wanes. Boredom is his first enemy.
An absence of decent employment and application of his abilities makes
him quite a difficult partner.

He is oriented at achieving major concrete goals, but often runs into
difficulty when trying to choose them. It takes time for him to get
going, he doubts, thinks things over again. But once he makes a choice,
he acts swiftly, amping up his pace and not resting until he has
realized the conceived. A very resourceful and flexible tactician.
Active and operative, in periods of elation his capacity for work is
very high. Doesn't like unasked for advice, prefers to make decisions
independently. Can hear out his conversation partner, but leave the last
word to himself. Doesn't tolerate commanding tone in others. If someone
tries to pressure him, he resolutely counters it. In the interest of his
business, shows diplomatic abilities, be considerate and courteous.

Dislikes it very much when others show initiative that seems to be out
of place, for example, try to impose something or hurry others - in this
case, can do the opposite. Very self-loving and easily offended, but
tries to hide it, considering this to be his weakness. Doesn't forgive
tactlessness and injustice towards himself. This can provoke a flash of
aggression in him.

Insightful, witty, has a critical turn of mind. When angry shows
intolerance towards other people's shortcomings. Knows how to give a
brief and succinct description of a person, to ridicule him in presence
of strangers, to put him on the spot. Actively asserts his interests,
and those of his loved ones. Can create an unfavorable environment for
disagreeable people, but for those whom he loves, he tries to provide
the necessary comfort, showing care and attention.

Feels proud of his successes and seeks high valuation of himself. Has a
tendency to overestimate his abilities, which leads to arrogance and a
wish to teach others. Self-instilled confidence in his own rightness and
insufficient self-criticism do not simplify his relations with others.
Respects people who are influential and authoritative. Lenient and
forgiving towards those who are compliant, soft and vulnerable, in need
of help, especially towards children. Often provides them his protection
and support. Nonetheless, he is strict, even harsh both at home and at
work.

Very stubborn and demanding. In personal relationships with difficulty
adjusts to his partner, as he is rather uncompromising. Using willpower,
can make himself subdue feelings to reason. Proud and independent. It is
often unpredictable in his actions, depends on the changes in his mood.
Changes his interests and his hobbies often, but his affection tries to
keep for a long time. Cherishes old friendships, although he usually
doesn't show sentimentality in his relationships.

Strives towards high material level of life. Has a good aesthetic taste,
gourmand, cannot deny himself that which gives him pleasure. Bold in
sex, but mistrustful of love, afraid of being deceived in his hopes or
to get lost in wishful thinking. Quickly grows tired of monotony: he is
attracted by psychological games with a partner, when hope interchanges
with doubt - in this lies an element of excitement for him.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Sharp, demonstrative, attacking style of behavior. Can be expressive and
expansive to the point of being aggressive. Feels at home in emergency
and crisis situations, abruptly joins into conflicts, can apply pressure
in order to create order. If he finds himself unoccupied by anything,
can even provoke a conflict, so that later he can take initiative into
his own hands. Emotional and sociable, with his attention won't pass by
a single person of the opposite sex. Women of this type also take
initiative in getting to know potential partners. Usually muscular,
active and mobile, somewhat thin. Has a well developed taste, a
gourmand. In fashion drawn to exquisiteness and prestige.



Logical subtype Ti-ESTp (Ti-SLE)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

Leaves an impression of calm strength and self-assurance. Rational and
consistent in his affairs. Hardworking and enduring. Usually he is
cold-blooded, restrained, collected and unfazed, but in moments of
irritation does not conceal his anger, which shows in his look and in
sudden categorical gestures. When he is calm, he is polite and
courteous, tough keeps his conversation partners at a distance. His
humor is blunt and can be somewhat crude. Sometimes he has a fast
moving, distrustful look that looks from under his eyebrows. Appearance
is usually serious, somewhat guarded and alert. Gait and gestures are
harmonious, flowing, and precise. Dresses somewhat monotonously, and
strictly, although at times surprisingly brightly and extravagantly.
Values quality in clothing, occasionally putting together sets from only
a few items. In most cases has a tendency to not stand out. This applies
both to how he behaves and how he dresses. Seems cold and inaccessible,
even though he tries to be appropriate, even-tempered and well-wishing
towards others. Holds himself with dignity.

**Character**

Balanced and self-controlled. Tries not to lose his composure under any
circumstances. Restrained and appropriate in his statements, but at
times can flare up. Feels very upset when he has lost his temper in
front of other people. Authoritative and serious, has a well-developed
sense of self-worth. Prefers to talk about that in which he considers
himself competent. Relies on official and trusted source of information.
Distrustful of new theories, hypotheses, and assumptions that haven't
been tested in practice. Skeptical of the occult and the esoteric.

This is a person of action and not reflection. When the time comes to
react, he orients quickly in the changing circumstances, boldly takes
risks, carefully weighting all chances and not losing his interests from
sight. Enthusiastically takes up new tasks, projects, or business.
Interested in laws and instructions. Can maintain good documentation. If
he is asked for advice or a consultation, delves into the details of the
issue and gives concrete advice. Predisposes other people towards
himself by giving them his attention and providing his services.

Mobilizes beforehand to overcome obstacles, calculating ahead of time
all the risks of current situation. Always has a good sense of the real
situation, and knows how to extract benefit from it. Knows how to
properly arrange people to carry out a job or assignment. Well
perceptive of other people's business acumen and capabilities. However,
finds it difficult to evaluate more distant prospects of projects and
relationships.

Grows bored if he doesn't find an application to his abilities, or if he
has to finish something he's lost an interest in or that which has no
practical interest for him. Only new experiences and impressions and
frequent changes in activity raise his vitality.

Rationalistic, pragmatic, and hard working. Very logical and practical
in his activities and in business. Punctual, responsible, demanding of
himself and expects the same from others. Looks to quality in
everything. Unforgiving of simulation and negligence. Evaluates efficacy
not by the efforts expended but by the final outcome. Likes to act
boldly, takes big risks, but prepares for it thoroughly and in detail.

Discerning and sensible, speaks with a confident tone, tries to convince
by facts. Very practical, dislikes theories and pointless activities. In
contact with strangers via indirect questions assesses their position in
society, connections and capabilities. Looks for common ground and ways
in which it is possible to come together to solve common business
interests. Undemonstrative, but when a chance presents itself likes to
emphasize his achievements. Proud, if he has achieved everything in his
life by his own effort.

Authoritarian and possesses a strong will, but, if needed, can
demonstrate flexibility in communication, even make temporary
concessions for the sake of reaching his ultimate goal. Understands the
importance of material and financial incentives, knows how to use them,
without losing his own benefit. Shows a friendly, well-wishing attitude
towards others, but in work and business requires unity and unanimity.

Considers restraint in expressing feelings to be a guarantee of their
seriousness and reliability. Proud, doesn't impose his company, doesn't
know how to entertain guests. Rarely makes compliments even towards
women. Lives by his mind and puts business above personal sympathies,
due to which may unwittingly offend other people, himself not attaching
any importance to this. Afraid of falling into dependency, even on
people who are close to him. Quite secretive, doesn't like when others
try to "climb into his soul". Can deflect a direct conversation and
skillfully place his conversation partner on the spot.

In his heart, he is a bit guarded, mistrustful and suspecting. Afraid of
trickery and betrayal by those whom he trusts. Inclined to fall into
pessimism and melancholy. Ponders over his problems, especially of
personal nature, tries not to share them with people around him. Opens
up his heart and soul only to very close and tested friends. In moments
of despair, needs understanding, compassion and consolation, but due to
his mistrust he doesn't risk to open up and be honest. Not seldom turns
to alcohol to relieve stress and tensions.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Prefers to remain in the shadow, not showing his aspirations, but
constantly holds his hand on the pulse of all that is happening around
him. Outwardly appears balanced and phlegmatic. Before acting, checks
all the variations of possible consequences, and only then enters into
the game. Distrustful, careful, skeptic, conservative and realistic. Due
to his low sociability makes an impression of being introverted. Once he
has identified a target, acts slowly, by the method of "slowly
compressing ring".



Additional Links
----------------

-  `Discussion of SLE (ESTp)
   subtypes <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/6796-Two-subtypes-of-SLEs-ESTps-which-one-are-you>`_
-  :doc:`Contact and Inert Subtypes by Meged and Ovcharov <contact_inert_subtypes>`
-  :doc:`Subtyping systems and related articles <subtype>`
-  :doc:`Romantic and Sexual Behavior of Quadras and Subtypes <romantic_quadra>`