SLE Profile by Gulenko
===========================


    
General description
-------------------

The SLE (ESTp) is a decisive and goal-oriented person. Prefers to set
only major goals and will move towards them no matter the obstacles. His
persistence increases proportionally to the number of obstacles that
must be overcome. If there is no excitement of a struggle or a
competition, he plunges into doubt and low mood.

Attempts to give instruction and orders, but himself dislikes commanding
tone. Makes others concede and fall under his influence. Often assumes
the position of a "shadow" leader. Can accept a temporary compromise.

Logically calculates a plan of action in advance, as if playing a game
of chess; a flexible tactician. Poorly foresees the future development
of events; may halt in indecision if things get out of control or take
an unexpected turn. Controls his activities from point of view of the
final result. In the decisive moment, he is able to concentrate all his
forces.

Distrustful, tests people in action. Feels unsure about how others
relate to him. Prone to first notice the weaknesses and shortcomings.
Finds it difficult to restrain negative emotions in his relationships.
Can be intolerant in communication with his loved ones. In an extreme
situation leaves no room for pity and sympathy. His feelings always have
a physical component of possessing his partner.


Detailed description
--------------------

SLE is a resolute person who can provide volitional pressure if the
situation requires this. He is determined to win at any cost. The more
obstacles he encounters along the way, the more collected and energetic
his advance becomes. Doubt and hesitation are foreign to him; he feels
convinced of his right. Categorical in his assessments, reserves the
last word. He is primarily interested in the result, not the process of
achieving it. Adept at calculating various plans of action in his mind,
choosing the most logical one for the given situation. Knows how to find
the most compromised point of his opposition. If a direct attack does
not bring success, can try to bypass from the sides or from the back,
work through third parties. Feels lost in unusual, illogical situations.

Able to unite people around him to achieve a specific goal. Clearly
delineates everyones position on the team. Confidently coordinates
joint actions. Presents an ultimatum: "If you have chosen me, now you
have to listen to me." Explains everything simply and clearly, citing
illustrative examples. Tries to control the key points only without
wasting efforts on details. Grasps the situation as a whole. Flexibly
readjusts if the activity is no longer promising. For each task he
devotes a certain period of time after which he makes the final
decision: to continue on or to stop. Captures well the logic of actions
of other people; thus the only ones who can win with him are those who
are constantly changing it. Tests people in action, throwing those who
lack training into the midst of things.

SLE experiences difficulty establishing personal relations in informal
situations. Often he is too intolerant and uncompromising, predisposed
to dictate his own way in his relations. Intolerant when someone else
places demands of personal commitment from him. Constructs a system of
ethical values for himself that often does not correspond to what is
generally accepted. Frequently disbelieves that there exist pure,
platonic relations. Sometimes declares that he is for "fairness", for
equal treatment of everyone; nevertheless, has favorites and scapegoats.
Treats well those who respect his friends and oppose his enemies. Does
not let go of those to whom he has grown attached; attempts in any way
to make them enter a dependent relationship with him, to "tame" or
"placate" them.

Receives well calm words, positive forecasts, faith in the future.
Pessimism and superstitions anger him. He is soothed and relaxed by a
light, hassle-free communication style and optimistic outlook.
Periodically turns to thoughtful introspection. Withdraws into himself,
reflecting on future prospects and emerging opportunities. Time softens
his harsh temper. After suffering a series of inexplicable losses and
defeats, he begins to wonder about fate, may turn to religion, occupy
himself with charity work. He is very enterprising and venturous. Enjoys
competition, boisterous company, where he can relax and emotionally
recharge. Likes to be inspired and uplifted. His emotional state heavily
depends on the emotional state of others around him. He likes to listen
to music. It puts him in the right disposition, creates balance in his
soul. Grows offended if he is called an uncaring person.

Forces himself to achieve that which for others may seem almost
impossible. Boldly responds to a challenge when his abilities are
questioned. Considers himself to be intelligent. Handles well problems
that test for ingenuity. In public, he gladly demonstrates his erudition
and knowledge of the fundamentals. Not averse to act in role of a
patron. If he is taken to the edge, he is able to manifest merciless and
relentless fury. At such moments he cannot stop himself in anger. Does
not give more than one chance.

Comfort, good material conditions for life are his secret desire. He
seeks to provide for himself and his loved ones. Without this feels
unfulfilled, a failure. Does not respect people who are frail, lacking
in physical exercise and training. Proud of his own good physical
constitution and feels upset if he does not possess one. Due to excess
drive and energy, he is prone to quickly dissipate his natural reserves
of health. External appearance tends to be either inconspicuous or
underscoring his high status. Has poorly developed sense of harmony and
aesthetic taste. Highly susceptible to physical drives and tends to meet
his physical needs before soulful ones.

A good manager, skillfully manages his matters. Tries to derive benefit
out of any businesses venture. Not inclined to save money, especially
small amounts. Pays attention only to substantial sums of money. Often
teaches himself a few handy skills. When faced with excessive work load
will try to hire other people to do the work for him. Likes to manage
complex technology in extreme and trying situations.


Manner of communication
-----------------------

A correct and somewhat restrained manner of interaction is
characteristic of the SLE. If :doc:`logical component is emphasized <SLE_subtypes>`, the communication is more relaxed, less
inhibited, with smiles and expressions of positive emotions. The SLE
often greets people first. Doesn't directly express his opinion on a
topic of discussion. Tries to positively predispose a person towards
himself with attentiveness and sensitivity, asks many questions,
inquires about their problems, voices a wish to hear his or her
opinions. All of this is done in a delicate, correct form, which very
much predisposes people to give him answers. In a dialogue, the
following moment is characteristic of this sociotype. After the replica
of his conversation partner, the SLE makes a pause, as if thinking
things over, trying to comprehend the information and provide the needed
answer. During this deliberation he tends to squint his eyes. Another
peculiarity of his manner of communication - is no fear in showing his
ignorance or lack of understanding of some question. The SLE doesn't
hesitate to ask, and re-ask, and to clarify things once again. When he
is giving an explanation, he does so slowly, with logical
prioritization, explaining everything in terms of simple examples from
practical experience. For the purposes of type diagnosis, SLE's way of
finishing up a discussion is also noteworthy. Once he has given everyone
the opportunity to speak, he expresses himself, as if giving a summary
of the discussion. Keeps the last word for himself. If necessary, he can
"put a person into a puddle", crush him with one remark or phrase said
at the right time. If this moment hasn't happened in a long time, can
provoke a person to activity in order to strike at the "weak" place.


Features of behavior
--------------------

SLE's behavior is characterized by iron self-control and composure. The
conceived global goal he reaches no matter what. Pays no attention to
the hustle and fuss around him. If it is needed, he doesn't stop at any
methods, not taking ethics into account. His activities grow and expand
in breadth. As the SLE starts to lose control of his project because of
its large scale, he turns over the control for the less significant
parts of it to other people, with whom he establishes mutually
beneficial relations on contractual basis. After this, does not
interfere with their work. Flexible tactician, can adapt to the
situation while not losing sight of the main target. Agrees only to
temporary concessions. Knows how to arrange his own people according to
their usefulness towards his purpose. Prefers informal and
undemonstrative leadership. Directs people while staying in the shade.
May attempt to get rid of opponents by using someone else's hands.
Characterized by a large capacity for work and perseverance, which
increase proportionally to the number of obstacles he faces. Under
normal circumstances, without any difficulties and excitement, the SLE
walks around relaxed, pessimistic. When a difficulty comes up, he comes
alive and regains his passion. Tends to give ultimatums: either it is
done the way I want, or I won't do anything at all. It is difficult to
make him lose his temper, but if it does he cannot stay angry for long.
For achieving the goal he attracts all subordinates to work, even the
people who are not prepared for its implementation. Assesses
effectiveness only by the final result. Does not control the methods of
accomplishing a project. Likes games that involve risk and gambling, in
which one has to think. Often wins in them, because he is able to
confuse his opposition and provoke them to make a false move.

Appearance
----------

It is easiest to identify SLE by his figure and his movements. SLE with
:doc:`enhanced sensory component <SLE_subtypes>` usually has a thin figure.
If this is a woman, she often has a delicate, refined look. Movements
are non-hurried, phlegmatic. From aside an impression is created of
quiet confidence in herself. The figure of SLE with :doc:`enhanced logical component <SLE_subtypes>` is quite different. It is relatively dense,
thickset, solidly put together. Movements are uninhibited, free. When he
is standing still, he is characterized by involuntary oscillations of
the arms and body, but these movement are calm, not sharp. His nose is
neutral and unremarkable. Eyebrows are often a bit at an angle, moving,
sometimes asymmetrical. Showing their dissatisfaction, brings them to a
menacing nose. The eyes, if enhanced sensory component, with age,
becoming swollen, framed by a rather large skin folds of age. In logical
subtypes of squint your eyes periodically. Lips - heavy, full,
slow-moving, sometimes causing a slurred speech. SLE is worn
unobtrusively. He tries to stick to a neutral style, impervious to
fluctuations of fashion. If a woman prefers a soft, pastel colors. Men
are often the official dress, costume. This demonstrates the desire of
SLE is not released, remain in the shadows.


As a subordinate
----------------

| **Strengths**
| Distinguished by his leadership character. Volitional man, mobilized
  and energetic. Possesses a quick response, coupled with a good
  endurance. Knows how to manage people, quickly reorients under
  changing circumstances. Can quickly take on crucial decisions. He is
  set for achieving realistic immediate goals - adaptable tactician.
  Energetic and active, in periods of growth shows impressive work
  efficiency and ethic. Has a critical mind. Actively defends and
  pursues his own interest and those of his group. Strives for high
  material standard of living. He likes to take on major projects after
  carefully weighing everything over and developing a specific plan of
  action. Very goal-oriented and practical in business. Lives by his
  mind, puts matters above personal feelings. Resistant to stress,
  mobilizes in emergency situations.

| **Problem areas**
| Quite aggressive, has difficulty establishing smooth, conflict-free
  relationships with others. Does not like indecisive people who avoid
  taking bold actions. Does not like commanding tone, to be put under
  pressure, sharply rebuffs those who try this. Proud, when angry shows
  intolerance to other people's failures and mistakes. May create an
  unpleasant environment for those who are disagreeable to him. In
  personal relationships uncompromising, wants to manage and arrange
  everything his own way. Distrustful of new people. Seeks to clarify
  their position, connections and potential, by carefully asking
  questions and inquiring about the person. Heads towards his goal
  ignoring the interests of others. He has periods of ups and downs in
  mood and work performance.

From him do not demand and expect:

-  Consistent and sequential progress;
-  Softness, compliancy, non-contentiousness;
-  That he will work for free, "for the idea";
-  Predictive capabilities.

Recommended occupations: SLE manages other people well, allocates
responsibilities, clarifies roles. He is able to consider in detail the
necessary organizational structure and carry out its implementation with
persistence. He can carefully select the needed people, testing them in
advance, and keep all of his subordinates in the exacting structure,
resorting if necessary to unpopular measures and to application of
deliberate pressure. Practical, possesses good understanding of the
benefits of any enterprise. Works well with hands, can tinker with
anything and engage in skillful craftsmanship. Optimal use SLEs find in
fields of management, engineering, military, police force. They make for
good leaders at different levels, up to the highest.


As a supervisor
---------------

The essence of this sociotype is disposition to overcome obstacles and
barriers, targeted struggle against those who stand in the way of him
reaching his goal. He feels the need to influence people, to control
their desires and actions. Sociable, strikes up friendly relations with
the people, on which he comes to rely in business matters.

| Supervisor-competitor
| Strong-willed, confident in himself person. Not afraid of danger and
  taking on risks in business activity. Can successfully act as a
  manager or entrepreneur. Able to quickly assess the willful qualities
  of others. Differentiates people by categories, building a certain
  relation to each: a) confronting b) indifferent c) sympathetic d)
  familiar and amiable.

Ably sets the appropriate psychological distance. Information about
potential and willful qualities of people around him SLE transforms into
logical plans, estimates, projects, dispositions. Knows how to set
people to places according to their potential abilities needed to
achieve the main goal. The result of the activities of SLE is always a
tightly-knit group which obeys his guiding hand. Skillfully assesses the
balance of power in the current situation. According to this assessment
maneuvers with flexibility. In positional struggle never loses the
initiative, even if he chooses to sit and observe. Chooses the moment
for decisive action, if necessary undertakes a reasonable risk.

The system of interaction with people is constructed in accordance with
his penchant for hierarchical leadership. Gravitates towards covert,
shadowy forms of leadership. Seeks to remain as if on the sidelines of
events, while not letting them out of his sight. Intervenes in those
decisive moments when the matter must be turned back on the right track.

Establishing business relations with this sociotypes has its own
characteristics. For him the appearance of man carries a lot of
significance - his clothing, his mannerisms and behaviors, his carriage.
He is critical of persons who are physically weak, do not develop
themselves and train their will. Has deep respect for assertive,
forceful, penetrative qualities in a person. Appreciates above all ones
striving to achieve ones goal rather than competence. All of these
factors for SLE constitute objective criteria for establishing business
partnerships. His business activities are characterized by dynamism,
which is not always openly manifested. He can be patient, waiting for
the right situation to spring to action. Successful completion of the
business matter, coupled with bold and concentrated struggle, gives SLE
pleasure and awakens interest in life.

In respect to conflict situations and compromise, SLE is characterized
by competitive behavior and shows little willingness to compromise. If
he accepts a compromise, it is only under the influence of some urgent
circumstances. Psychologically, people of this type are set to win at
all costs, sometimes at the expense of ethics and their personal
commitments. Trying to find a way out, SLE tries to identify all the
weaknesses and vulnerabilities of the opponent and uses this information
in future. If the analysis has been completed, he is ready to proceed
with the action. His determination to win may have negative consequences
for his professional and personal relationships. The desire to transform
the external environment, to change the position of others, often leads
to multiple conflicts. However often these conflicts bring more troubles
and woes to his opponents rather than to representatives of SLE-type.
The latter tend to overlook the complexities of relationships and are
less sensitive to the emotional aspects. To resolve a complicated
situation in communication or a relationship (i.e. conflict) SLE seek to
either intensify efforts to strengthen their positions, or they reject
the contact and seek other partners who more favorably perceive their
view.

Main characteristics:

-  Hierarchical leader of objective orientation.
-  Establishing contact he is oriented at objective indicators.
-  The form of business activity is focused on resolving and overcoming
   hurdles and obstacles. Demonstrates competitive disposition.
-  Interaction with employees suggests administrative control.
-  Achieves great results in business activity without taking human
   relations into much consideration.
-  Inclined to reject the role of ethics in business. Believes that
   result justifies the means.
-  Strives for success in life, career oriented. Concerns about his own
   profit and success of the firm. Good orientation in immediate
   situations.
-  Relation to law: prone to take risks and may undertake criminal
   actions. If possible, tries to overcome legal barriers.


Working conditions
------------------

The impetus that drives SLE is status: achieving a certain level on the
work ladder and opportunities to live a lavish lifestyle. Therefore, if
he is your employee, try to put his management skills to use, entrust
him with independent tasks, responsibility and opportunities to manage
others. Promote him if possible, if not - come up with a prestigious
title for the same position or a reward. Remember that for him it is
much easier to command others than to receive orders. If you cannot
promote him now, think about it in the future (and promise it, if you
can). If SLE is not satisfied with his status in the group, he will
always look for another place where he has greater influence on the
course of the events. In business communication with SLE be aware that
he seeks competition with other people and will seek benefits anywhere,
even a small business. Therefore it is better if you prepare in advance
for a conversation. Determine in which minor matters you can agree to
compromise and where you cannot. Having achieved a small concession on
your part in the beginning of the conversation, the SLE will be much
more loyal by the end, where you will be able to persuade him
diplomatically. If he becomes cheerless and unresponsive, carefully,
with tactful questions inquire about the causes of poor mood (not
persisting, if he does not want to answer). Most often, this may be
uncertainty about the future, their abilities, or behavior of others. If
you can somehow reassure him with phrases like "do not worry, everything
will be fine, since ...", he will start to internally sympathize with
you.


Recommendations for self-improvement
------------------------------------

You are without a doubt, a strong-willed and determined person. You
always set large, far-reaching goals and do not like to waste energy on
small, inconsequential things. You know how to flexibly respond to
situations and accept temporary compromises, but do not lose sight of
the main goal.

Your character is particularly evident in critical situations. Your
persistence in overcoming obstacles increases in proportion to their
number. You are very reckless, although will not take unnecessary risks.
You like activities that allow to show the qualities of resourcefulness,
strength of will, and composure during an emergency. You have good
organizational skills. You know how to find the right people and the
right to place, depending on their skills, able to direct their efforts
to achieve the main goal.

You do not try to put your accomplishments on display. You prefer to
stay in the background, encouraging others to necessary activities. For
you, a sense of responsibility is characteristic.

The main problem of your life - the lack of tact and diplomacy in
dealing with people. Sometimes you openly demonstrate intolerance of
other people's shortcomings and weaknesses. To achieve your goals
sometimes you can step over the interests of other people, which can
evoke negative evaluations and moral judgment of others in your address.

Remember that the formula of "the end justifies the means" is not always
true. Cultivate tolerance, and respect the dignity and feelings of
others. A deep study of philosophies and religions where human values
are advocated and justified will help you to better understand the
essence of man. Cultivate in yourself polite and proper manners.

Show more respect towards persons of the opposite sex. Do not lose your
sense of romanticism, without which your life can turn into a colorless
existence. Do not always expect exceptional initiative in expression of
feelings from your partner, try to demonstrate or communicate to him or
her your disposition. Another problem  your excessive focus on the
shortcomings of the person. This can create an unfair attitude toward
him or her. Be more sensitive and careful, take care of people, not only
in words but also in deeds. Do not leave unanswered questions that were
asked of you. When listening to someone, do not think of extraneous
things, but instead focus on the persons problems. Do not underestimate
the role of intellectual labor in the workplace.

More often reflect on the possible consequences of your actions. Never
shift the responsibility for mistakes onto shoulders of other people -
it can affect your reputation in the future. Try to keep track of
situations that go beyond formal communication. You can put yourself in
an awkward position by asking irrelevant questions, which can be
perceived by others as tactless.
