SLI subtypes
=============

Sensing subtype Si-ISTp (Si-SLI)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The sensory subtype is composed and cordial, not demonstrative,
obstinate and uncompromising in defending his views and interests.
Supports his positions rationally by logic and facts, and not by
thought-up or assumed accounts. Diligent, laborious, patient, persistent
in his work and studies. If some project captures his interest, he will
tirelessly try to improve his results, both intellectual and material.
At times he needs a change of occupation, but will attempt to bring
previous work to completion. From time to time he becomes contemplative,
withdraws into himself, distances from his social circle, submerges into
his own problems. Somewhat restricted in dialogue, may be brief and to
the point, but tries to be cordial and good-natured if he feels tensions
come up conversation. Prefers items that are original and of good
quality, yet simple and unpretentious, enjoys handmade things. Aesthete,
pays attention to his health, appearance, and figure, tries to dress
tastefully. Has graciously lazy gestures, at the same time confident and
precise movements. Gait is a little relaxed and springy. Doesn't like to
hurry, but neither is he slow. Seems somewhat proud and haughty.

**Character**

Original person with strongly expressed individuality, but due to
indecisiveness and modesty may prefer to be in the background. Combines
sober realism and practicality with a drive for self-development. If he
finds his calling, can pursue it for a long time, eventually achieving
high skill and professionalism. He is never fully satisfied with what
has been achieved and constantly develops it further, providing the best
form for the content. Curious, tangentially interested in other ways for
expressing and apply his talents and abilities, trying himself in
various directions. However, he poorly sees future prospects of projects
and work, and due to this may miss out on important opportunities.
Frequently feels disappointed regarding lost opportunities.

Aesthete who loves convenience, nature, travel. Willingly shares his
impressions and stories of the world around him with those he's
sympathetic towards. Possesses a sense of humor with a touch of irony.
Notices many details. Very impressionable. Intolerant of boorishness,
poor tastes, callousness and crassness. Dislikes pathos, demonstrative
appeals and calls, as well as prideful attitudes, conceit. He's
impressed by bold, sincere, friendly, and open people, who encourage
him, instill belief in success and lift his spirits. An unpredictable
and independent by nature partner sparks in him a sense of curiosity and
a desire to keep such a person.

Uncompromising in matters of principle. Does not like to concede once
conquered positions, although also knows how to take into account the
rules and regulations of his milieu. Quite mobile, cherishes inner
personal peace and freedom of action. Sometimes finds it interesting to
test himself in complex situations, to overcome difficulties, which adds
to his self-affirmation, however, dislikes taking excessive risks and
recklessness. Suffers from changeable moods that affect his performance.
Does not like forcing himself to do something. If others violate his
inner balance, he can get hot-tempered, flare up, of which later he may
regret. In most situations tries to be composed and loyal.

Poorly tolerates routine, monotony, and boredom. Falls into apathy and
depression if he needs to have the same engagement for a long time.
Cannot engage in lengthy paper-pushing or purely intellectual work.
Dislikes abstract conversations, prefers deeds instead. Needs specific,
practical activities, outdoor engagements, and frequent change of
impressions for vitality. Dislikes obeying someone else's will and
schedule. Won't take up useless work, but if he is passionate about
something, develops high work capacity. Prepares for tasks and
assignments in advance, thinking through the details of work he needs to
do, to later work smoothly, accurately, and quickly. Is thorough and
conscientious in his work and studies. Does everything qualitatively.
Knows his own worth and feels proud of the results of his work.

Somewhat restrained in communication and emotional expression. With
skepticism refers to active emotional displays, but is very sensitive
towards compliments. Sometimes he seems unapproachable and official,
though he tries to create an atmosphere of simplicity and ease.
Internally emotional and vulnerable, but manages to avoid conflict by
showing good judgment and diplomacy. Critical, ridiculing, sarcastic,
but tries to spare the feelings of others and thus speaks of their flaws
only at the appropriate time and in harmless manner. Not interested in
the personal lives of others and speaks of his own with reluctance.
Tries to be faithful in relationships and to always keep his promises.

Sometimes becomes distracted by other activities living at home in
"artistic mess", but then mobilizes to quickly restore organization and
order. Skillfully solves daily problems. Strives towards well provided
for life, which motivates him to work and activity. Inclined to arrange
everything with convenience for himself, although tries taking interests
of others into account. Can delay making a decision, needs support and
inspiration. Once the decision is made, despite seeming inertia and
relaxation, shows enviable perseverance in achieving his goals. Does not
explain to anyone else the process of his work. His achievements and
results are often a surprise to others.

This is a person of heightened sensitivity: poorly reacts to sultry air,
unpleasant odors, uncomfortable shoes and clothing, unsightly appearance
of people or food. Does not tolerate drunkenness, dirtiness, poor
behavior. Sensitive towards discomfort, both external and internal.
Afraid of falling sick and growing old, so takes care of himself and is
very concerned about his loved ones. Values uniqueness and originality
in clothing and in the interior of the room, does not like standards,
pays much attention to quality. Appreciates handmade creative work,
whether it's playing a musical instrument, embroidery, or handicrafts.
Tries to dress elegantly and tastefully. Holds himself confidently, with
calm and quiet dignity.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Aesthete, oriented at pleasant impressions. More easily comes into
contact with other people and is more flexible than the logical subtype.
More optimistic, but less disposed to performing work. Has developed
refined tastes, a connoisseur and a sybarite. Gravitates towards
humanitarian disciplines: literature, art, linguistics, history.
Presents him/herself with pleasant aesthetics, choosing clothing and
settings that emphasize his or her good looks, selecting for harmonious
and complimentary tones.



Logical subtype Te-ISTp (Te-SLI)
--------------------------------



Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Appearance**

The logical subtype is impatient and active, loves frequent changes and
new impressions. Industrious, hardworking, and very caring. His behavior
is unpredictable and characterized by unexpected transitions from aloof
contemplation to expedient activity. Keeps certain reserve and distance
from other people, and at times can be overly direct, harsh, and
inconsiderate in conversation. Very independent and proud, does as he
wishes. In conversation he is prickly and ironic, but becomes friendly
and shows consideration if he has sympathy and respect for his
conversation partner. Noticing that he has offended someone, regrets it
and softens his communication, tries to turn everything into a joke, or
may even apologize and try to calm the person down. Behind his external
seeming inaccessibility he is quite impressionable and vulnerable.
Dislikes lack of comfort in all of its manifestations; thus strives to
fix, adjust, and adapt everything for greatest convenience. Responsible,
reliable, and punctual. Demanding towards himself and others. Holds
himself with cold dignity, but at times he can be emotional. His
gestures are impulsive, confident, resolute. Gait is quick and measured.

**Character**

A creative person of practical inclinations. Technological, rational,
quick-thinking in business. Has low tolerance for unoriginality,
cliches, and primitivism in working methods. Seeks and searched for new
methods for improving labor. Skeptical and distrustful towards new
ideas, oriented at quick and concrete results. Does not suffice with old
approaches and takes risks in testing innovative solutions in practice.

After verifying the effectiveness of a new method or approach, develops,
improves and polishes it further, demonstrating ingenuity and
perseverance. Knows how to squeeze the most out of an idea. Hardworking
and energetic, cannot stand wasteful expenditures of time and efforts.
Likes to work as hard as he can, quickly and efficiently, with high
productivity. Appreciates convenience and good working conditions.

This is an individualist, on whom it's difficult to impose anything.
Prefers to solve his problems on his own, by the means he has at his
disposal. Does not like asking for help or loaning anything. Prefers to
have all he needs at his disposal, to not depend on anyone else.
Everything that is needed for work, project, or business he acquires in
advance. Tries to have the entire inventory of "tools" needed for
rational labor and active leisure time.

All of the adaptations, equipment, and tools needed for his work he
keeps in perfect order, which allows to save time in work when they
become needed. Becomes very upset if he forgets to put something in its
place and then has to search for it for a long time. Dislikes paperwork
drudgery and finds opportunities to reduce it to a minimum. All the
needed documentation he keeps in order to avoid further wasting of time.

Usually reaches a high level of professionalism and excellence in his
occupation, but is somewhat unsure in himself and diffident, prone to
having doubts and fluctuations. In need of moral and material
incentives. Undemonstrative, but is very sensitive to the assessment of
his abilities and becomes offended if his work is not noticed and not
praised. At the same time, dislikes undeserved compliments. Respects
capable and talented people; tries to create all the possible conditions
for the development of their abilities.

Contrasting in his behavior: relaxed and quietly contemplative, then
suddenly active and mobile. Cannot be in the same place or engage in the
same task for a long time. Impatient, does not like it when the same
subject is discussed at length. Himself is usually not very wordy and
may be quiet. Good at distributing his own activities and assignments:
if there is time he does not rush things, but once he feels that there
is time to act, he becomes very mobile, hurrying himself and others.
Usually does everything by the deadlines, despite the fact that he often
gets distracted by other activities. Very efficient, proactive, and
clever when it comes to taking care of household and economic problems.
Willingly engages in physical labor, repairs things, facilities and
equipment. Can do much with his own hands.

Strives to be knowledgeable over various topics. Very curious and may
read a lot. Has many diverse interests, easily learns something new. A
good lecturer or teacher, as he can explain complex things simply and
effectively. Does not tolerate criticism and suggestions on topic on
which he views himself competent. In conversation, tries to persuade
others using logic and facts. It is hard to convince him in a dispute.
In what he considers to be true, he is persistent up to being obstinate:
does not go for a compromise even in the most critical situations.
Proving his own correctness he becomes hot-tempered, impulsive and
unhinged.

Secretive and suspicious. Dislikes being the center of attention. Finds
it difficult to fit into a society he is unfamiliar and unaccustomed
with. Reluctantly makes contact with unfamiliars and strangers, prefers
to communicate with like-minded people. Not accepting of familiarity,
can with a look or gesture to put a person in his or her place. Has a
heightened sense for maliciousness, affectedness and falsehood. Cannot
bring himself to talk to the needed, but unpleasant to him people. After
break relations with someone, does not go for reconciliations and
concessions first, even if he has realized that he was in the wrong.

If others don't understand him, he withdraws into himself and becomes
cold, sharp, and unapproachable. Does not know how to eliminate tension
in communication, prefers to leave and separate himself from the
previous conversation partner with a wall of silence. Responsive only to
the kindness and sincerity. Cannot stand hypocrisy. Himself if very
honest in relationships, conscientious, obligated and punctual. He can
always be relied upon: reliable in friendship, love and business.
Readily comes to aid of the first request, sympathizes with another's
misfortune or grief. However, he can always turn away from a person who
has lost his trust and respect.

Grows tired of monotony and routine. Willingly travels. Interactions
with nature calm him down. New occupations, interests, and hobbies raise
his vitality and help him to overcome apathy. Often he enjoys sports,
the excitement in the competition. Not averse to experiencing thrilling
and risky sensations, but without the risk of injury. Careful towards
all living things: people, nature, animals, and even insects. Does not
"play" with his own or another's life. Does not tolerate coercion, and
himself does not know how to pressure others. Find it difficult to hit
anyone, but, at the same time, he is very independent and not always
considerate of the interests of others when they do not coincide with
his own. When someone tries to limit his freedoms, he may break up the
relations.

Has a hard time enduring through physical and mental discomfort, and
tries to do everything possible to remove it. For the same reason,
avoids bad habits. Closely monitors his health and physical form.
Appreciates beauty and harmony in everything, although finds it
difficult to reach an internal balance. Very impressionable, inclined to
fall into depression even over minor reasons. A fatalist at heart,
believer in the inevitability, and does not try to forcibly change the
course of events. Often lacks in resoluteness.

Suspicious and proud. Afraid to show awkward emotions or to seem
intrusive, thus hides his problems from the outsiders, preferring to
suffer them alone. Finds it difficult to express his feelings in words.
Does not like to demonstrate how he feels in front of strangers. Tries
to talk of love in a joking humorous manner, risking being
misunderstood. Not sentimental, manifestation of tenderness come to him
with much difficulty. Proves his love by actions and deeds and not by
words. Very attentive, caring, and dedicated. If misunderstandings
happen, he usually does not attempt to justify himself or make excuses.
Internally he feels himself lonely, if there is no sensitive tactful
person by his side, capable of understanding everything without
extraneous words, and of encouraging him in times of pessimism and
melancholy.

This logical subtype of SLI is not very common, and, as we have noticed,
for this reason gives the greatest number of errors in typing not only
by ours, but also by foreign experts. Most often, this type is confused
for type SLE (due to secrecy and distrust of the latter, which get
falsely interpreted as introversion) and ILI, who often overestimates
his practicality and considers himself a realist due to analytical mind
and a well-developed logic of actions, as well as other types.

Developed by us theory of i.e. accentuations, which provides both visual
clues and characteristic manifestations, related to the heightened
expressions of the 12 information elements of TIMs, - or rather, the
subtypes - will help avoid many errors in typing and testing.



Description by Victor Gulenko
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Outwardly seems business-oriented, somewhat severe, cold and
unapproachable. A realist and skeptic, distrustful of novelty, and of
those who advance ideas of declarative nature [slogans?]. Will always
avoid working on useless projects due to pragmatic nature. Very dynamic
and technologically effective. Can extract maximum benefits even from
something that is seems useless. His products are always at the
forefront and will stand up to any competition on the market. In
clothing he is restrained, conservative, and prefers a sporty,
technological style.



Additional Links
----------------

-  `Discussion of SLI (ISTp)
   subtypes <http://www.the16types.info/vbulletin/showthread.php/4964-ISTp-SLI-Subtypes>`_
-  :doc:`Contact and Inert Subtypes by Meged and Ovcharov <contact_inert_subtypes>`
-  :doc:`Subtyping systems and related articles <subtype>`
-  :doc:`Romantic and Sexual Behavior of Quadras and Subtypes <romantic_quadra>`
