Socioscope LSI
=====================

Sensory logical introtim (Gabin)
--------------------------------

    *Lazy master*

Life for SLI - not a means to a purpose: it is that which is given to
man in the sensations. All that is necessary for life, it already is -
it can only make things better, to make it more comfortable, get
pokomfortnee. He does not fight the inconvenience, but tries to get away
from it or adapt to it. SLI - bummer on principle.



If you want to work - lie down, go to sleep - and will
------------------------------------------------------

Why make unnecessary movements, why strive for useless things, deal with
what can not be applied in practice? Moreover, he can not understand why
other people are bustling busy useless things and do not even notice it.

And he himself is very interested in one thing. This is - the good (not
to be confused with the benefit!). In fact, from this point of view, it
measures almost everything - things people themselves. All should
benefit. Work which does not bring any material or moral satisfaction,
SLI will not do.

Ability to determine the futility of any action helps him avoid
unnecessary effort and movement, and the remaining time to complete so
nice relaxing ...

In determining what is good and what is not, rather introvert mercantile
and landed. If you try to briefly express his creed, we can express it
as: "A useful is that it makes life easy."



Pleasure must be wholly
-----------------------

Any a fly in the ointment spoils it all fun, even the minor discomfort
does not allow him to fully enjoy the already available treats. So all
of life's goals, which set itself the SLI, in reality only serve one
intermediate and, most importantly, constant desire: to get maximum
comfort in life, spending a minimum of effort.

Prestige, glory, fame, image, status, rank - all this in itself is for
the SLI is not very much value. Externally, it can seem quite
unaspiring. If something like that and fall into the hands of the very
ripe apple - please. A fuss, too much strain for the sake of it will
not. Why waste the strength and nerves?

Hence it follows a fairly considerable political passivity SLI. The
proposal to walk down the street with a sign he is likely to answer:
"Why do you have that, there is no work at home? So You go to the
country." By and large it "the drum" any power - as long as it did not
touch him more than he'll agree. SLI can adapt to almost any regime, any
order. He will always find a comfortable niche and be with a
condescending smile gaze at "rat race" of others.

He also he may seem unprincipled opportunist. Family and friends
sometimes try to awaken it civil (or any other) conscience. But any
attempt to ideological influence on him are doomed to failure.



I also know how to speak
------------------------

SLI to "weak" will not take. He lives by himself, hardly anyone letting
into your world, in your life.

Despite the seeming thick skin, it is very sensitive to all
manifestations of antipathy, envy and ill will. Last greatly hurt him to
the quick, hurt permanently settled in his mind, but here's the problem
- he can not, he can not show it, that's around, and believe sincerely
that nothing bad happened, no one is hurt, and no less sincerely
surprised when it increases the psychological distance or even leaves.

Yes, then he will forgive, but not forget, come back to this person, but
not quite - a crack left. Only a very close, dear people SLI can forgive
everything to make any compromises, fully adapt to them. With the rest
of the same people trying to be in the flat relations, preferring to
"nodding" (but not familiarity!) Bad attitude.

SLI feels the beauty, sees it where others are not aware of its
existence. He likes interesting, even luxuries. Although most SLI quite
immaterial what other emotions makes his own appearance, the appearance
of other people is with interest. Likes to be around him were sexy,
smart, but not vulgar people. So he likes to look at others. In them, he
sees the slightest nuances of the physical condition, undeveloped taste,
or lack of neatness in appearance, can see what kind of discomfort one
feels at that moment - the pain, fatigue, irritation. If you know how to
help him, will come up with useful advice, even to a stranger.



Well, what do you do break? Nothing? Sorry, sorry...
----------------------------------------------------

SLI generally likes to help others, to care, to care about them, to
cuddle, loves to entertain guests, give necessary and convenient gifts,
responsive to requests. Even considers himself obliged to help all, even
to those who for some reason is not pretty. However, it should ask for
help with your services imposed on the SSI does not like.

Interesting fact: if his partner is easier than usual to persuade him to
do something, most likely SLI him for something hurt.

In conversation he is having some difficulty. For example, it would be
hard to see the true feelings on the part of others. He initially
suspicious, secretive, does not believe the words. He would like to have
a friend you can trust to the end.

Their relationships with loved ones they want to see reliable, thorough.
If something is promised, will do, no matter what. And if his partner
starts to "wag", can literally take him by the collar, "Wait, where he
went?" SLI nobody throws: if the relationship went wrong absolutely, can
allow your partner to leave, as it were "let go" from him.



Smile - a loose concept
-----------------------

He does not like to spoil the mood of others, even the bad things, tries
to speak with a smile. Its good to someone does not show, cautious, but
always tries to maintain good relations with all and expects that others
will support his efforts. With people who received SSI in the circle
ceases to be cautious, acts openly. Happiest in an atmosphere of
constant kindness and friendliness.

He really did not like the crowded concourse, the crowd noise. Or
shopping at the market can be a serious problem, which for a long time
he knocks it out of the rut, but the discos all say nothing. Even the
crowded street, jostling in the school hallway on the break are the
source of his discomfort. He does not like scandals, crying, emotions,
the other person will raise his voice to, can leave with a bang. If
possible, try to have one or in a small group of old, tried and true
friends.



Suitable company - is a company where I will be treated to something
--------------------------------------------------------------------

To this we must add one more condition - where it will not be pulled.
And if the owners are, and say that he was waiting for a long time that
it came just in time - it means he is really pleased. Conversations are
not comfortable for him, and his guff tiring. Feels good when around
fun, but from a long emotional contact fatigue. Even at a party could
easily afford to do some thing, go into another room. He does not like
to be the center of attention.

What else can be said about his relationship with people? He is trying
to be diplomatic, avoids conflict. In order to round it was a world,
sometimes willing to sacrifice his own principles, because he knows that
if you really begin disassembling it go for a compromise will be very
difficult. He is very stubborn, uncompromising, unwilling to depend on
anyone, power influence can not be. It can soften, to beg, but to order
anything.

Extremely sensitive to any criticism. Does not like to make excuses.
Other arguments of his error just annoying. Secret communication with
him hidden in that critical information should be veiled. It is
important that he voluntarily admitted error of their position.

In extreme cases, the danger is not running, the opposite - quiet close
to its source, comes at an enemy, causing it to go through is not very
pleasant moments: a stocky, muscular figure, big, clenched fists,
obstinately frowning eyebrows over heavy look, expressing courage and
inflexibility - well, exactly like a bulldozer - and, while it is close
to you, I want to once again carefully review all the arguments "for"
and "against" the fight. For a successful opposition against him need
agility and flexibility.



What could it mean?
-------------------

In himself he is trying to develop foresight, the ability to detect
potential hazards along the way, but in spite of all his efforts,
success in this field is usually not very impressive. To my surprise, he
sees that other people it turns out, or a lot better than it, or they do
not pay attention to it and still live well. But if he will give it too
much attention, then he will have more problems than achievements.

In SLI good memory for dates, he is attentive to the terms of work. All
must be performed according to the schedule without being reminded by
others. Moreover, if someone starts to rush, it will be slower. He needs
a time, in the beginning, specify a date by which the work must be done,
and that will be enough.

By the way, giving him "dress" for a job, you need only specify its
purpose, its result: the best methods and ways of doing SLI and find
himself. He is a strong tactician, well versed in the means to achieve
the immediate objective, he knows what to do at the moment. Long can not
engage in business, if there is no interest until they worked out the
details, but if you include the - clearly, consistently and persistently
seeks to target.

In the frequent periods of idleness, he carefully considered the
situation and its future actions and therefore is able to avoid in the
pointless, unnecessary movements. From the side it seems that the result
was given to him very easily, such as "self-work". SLI can work almost
imperceptibly.

In general, he likes to work with his hands, and - a must! - Was visibly
see the result. Construction of the nearest environment can sometimes
take a lifetime.



The case makes perfect
----------------------

In socionics for SLI has an alias - Master. Out of his hands really
improved things go, they are functional and aesthetically perfect (that
is, once again, and useful and convenient.) The paper distinguishes it
not striking tenacity that will certainly lead to the completion of all
initiated, the internal responsibility for the case. He's very
inventive. His movements are quiet, accurate, extremely economical, it
may even appear that he is doing everything coolly, carelessly.

At the same time, if in his work, he will face unforeseen difficulties
or obstacles, without regret, ready to even almost finished work and
never come back to it.

If desired, may develop the practical skills all (unless, of course,
will bring him good). For example, to change the signature (on the same
as the teacher - now, it really does not prideretsya to it!), His gait,
learn professionally sew and knit. SLI big supporter of naturalness,
simplicity, even in the art of avoiding frills and excesses details.



Nothing extra!
--------------

A very striking example of this is the understanding of beauty in
Japanese - flashy, bright, but very profound art of ikebana, outwardly
unpretentious perfection of painting, architecture, preferring to work
with "live" material and does not hide behind a layer of paint and
gilding of the natural beauty of wood and stone, even the ordinary tea,
grown in a sophisticated ceremony.

For SLI is very important that any work brought him pleasure. In his
room, trying to set up ideal conditions for work and rest, efficiently
and aesthetically arranged his things. He knows how to get around
comfortably, so it was convenient.



Well, that worked well - now you can have lunch
-----------------------------------------------

Never forget about the physical needs of the organism, the case is hard
to imagine, because of which the SLI would forget to eat. The writer of
this type, describing the adventures of their heroes, always tell you
what they ate for breakfast, lunch and dinner, and whether they catch
anything else in between regular meals.

Some SLI can cook, but do not like to do it, lazy ... Another cook
rather than himself, and he would kill than simpler or go to "a suitable
company."

SLI can not stand obyazalovke, frames, restricting his freedom. The work
that needs to be done is disgusting, he needs to convince himself that
he wanted her to do. As unpleasant to him to engage in the same every
day, year after year. Measured, programmed life "house - tram - work"
gives him the horror. No surprises, surprises, adventures may just
languish.

SLI does not mean its a bad mood, fatigue. This can be seen by his
behavior, if he displeased grumbles at all - and it is not so, and he is
not that way - then, he's all right. Distress signal - his argument that
he likes in his life and the surrounding people. In general, if he
grumbles that unsweetened tea again, do not jump up and give him the
sugar bowl, and if he begins to praise the taste and convenience of the
situation in the kitchen - the urgent need to take action!



What to do?
-----------

Boredom - a real problem for the SLI. One hundred percent fun quickly
bored, and he desperately needed are new experiences. He likes people
keen to be carried away as well. With this it works better and more
interesting.

His first reaction to a new idea can be skeptical, but as soon as it is
satisfied in its prospects, could become a faithful follower. The fact
that he knows how to do things, but have no idea what to do. This need
to tell other people. He's waiting for someone to tell him what goals he
should put himself on what to do in your life; generally, what it can do
and how much of it can be good. It is very important for evaluation of
his work.

Others do not skimp on the praise for his work, for a good estimate of
its merits. If he expressed confidence he has no desire to work, and he
is waiting for others to notice his ability, was praised for taking the
initiative. SLI gets great pleasure to cooperate with the creative team
of enthusiasts, some interesting animated by the idea of ??him, he likes
to feel like a member of this team.



Functional description
----------------------

**First function: sensory experiences**

Perceive the physical world in all its wealth of sensations. Thin feels
any physical impact. Perfect job senses. Deep understanding of the
beauty of the world. Avoiding the inconvenience and discomfort. The
ability to find the most comfortable place in the environment.
Understanding the physical needs of others. Pragmatism, aesthetics,
economy of movement, the ability to find all convenience.

**The second function: the business logic**

Understanding how the technology works internally. Ability to improve
the mechanism. Ability to work with his hands. The desire to find
methods do work that would bring all of the physical costs to a minimum.
Functionalism, practicality, thrift.

**The third function: the intuition of time**

Understanding the need to be cautious and careful. Not a very good
orientation in time. Formal ability to predict events and anticipate
danger. Learning from other people's experience on the part of prudence.
Memory for dates, only the desire to live in accordance with their
internal rhythm.

**Fourth function: the ethics of emotions**

The desire for "quiet life." Avoidance of strong emotions. Principled
rejection of the emotional impact on other people. Feels vulnerable to
emotional explosions around. Indifference to any ideology, equanimity,
the desire to avoid the noise and crowds.

**The fifth function: Intuition opportunities**

Inability to independently fill your life interesting things. Love for
all things new and interesting. Passive search of ways to diversify
life. Craving for interesting people. An underlying expectation that
others will be addressed to him sincere interest. Lack of understanding
of their abilities. Insult to life, if it is "not interesting." Trust,
follow others fantasies.

**Sixth function: the ethics of relations**

Expectation that people will behave politely, sincerely and "humanity."
Expect a good attitude from the part of all friends. In response to the
location ready for him to take care of this man. Inability to
compromise. Unobtrusive friendliness, subconscious desire to be "his" in
any company, responsive to requests for assistance.

**Seventh function: volitional sensing**

Categorical refusal to submit to another's needs and determined
pressure. Tacit insistence achieve. Reluctance to first "get into a
fight." Subconsciously draws attention to the will power of others.
Stubborn defense of its interests and those of loved ones. Heightened
sense of ownership in relation to "outsiders" and "collective" ownership
of their own. Stubbornness, physical strength.

**Eighth function: the logic of relations**

Closely following the new information. Subconscious attention to how
others perceive information. Willingness to come to the aid of people in
the analysis of information. Does not take criticism of their
consistency and reasonableness.
