Socioscope EII
===================

Ethical intuitive introvert (Dostoevsky)
----------------------------------------

    *This - my love ...*

When you see it, you can not understand what kind of man. Its vast inner
world sometimes can not realize until the end, even he himself.

The man - who is he in this life?.

The existence of good and evil ... The constant struggle of people for
their own interests.

Where people love each other, where was their conscience ...

Sometimes he is afraid of these thoughts, the inability to resolve these
problems punches him in the heart. God, this cry from the heart, which
no one can hear - it is his pain, his cross ...

Have you tried to simultaneously take the soul that can not exist
together, something that can never be reconciled? Have you tried with
all my heart to love deadly feuding people and try to be the best friend
to each of them? Have you tried always , even in small ways, to live
only by the laws of conscience?

Conscience can only say what is good and what is - evil.

EII wants to live like that all my life - at the very maximum, that had
a clear conscience, and the soul is light. And the unfading light will
illuminate the road in the darkness of the lost people ...



Nothing is too
--------------

In EII innate gift of understanding people, for any "mask" he can now
see the inside of man, his moral potential. But he does not divide
people into "good" and "bad", as believed in the fact that even in the
most immoral and cruel man can always find nuggets of goodness. He was
also the strength to see subtle signs of improper motives in the most
humane and altruistic actions (including their own - he is trying not to
make a distinction between others and themselves).

Often it seems to me that I just forks: I simultaneously love and hate
the same thing.

A world in which he lives EII - is a world of people. Everything else
(material things, ideology, scientific theories, power) a second time,
because they are made by people and serves the people. Corny? Hardly.
Most people firmly believe that all that is done by people, is
personally to each one. That's it!

EII even on a desert island will remember that he is a part of humanity.
His "I" always, implicitly or invisibly, more like "we."

Do not make people that would not want to do unto you.

He does not live on other people's commandments - they naturally grew
out of his mind, he did not obey foreign laws, and the law of his own
conscience.

Conscience - a special state of the human soul. When they say that "the
soul at peace" - means a clear conscience.



The world is ruled by love
--------------------------

Initially, since childhood, EII expects humanity and love between
people. And in his mind as he can remember, has always lived a strong
and selfless love: to his mother, brother, friend, favorite teacher ...
It is expressed not in words but sincere trust, execution of foreign
desires obedience in all things, a hearty sympathy for the hardships
loved one.

EII would like to see all the people at least a little in love with each
other in order to live in peace and harmony. In fact, he tries to be a
case in point for all others. In all, even seemingly minor conflict,
conflict of interest, he is trying to deeply understand his reasons for
wanting to see the problem from every angle, trying to understand the
motives and desires of the people.

Another one of my feature, which is found in very few: it is the ability
to listen to people, to understand their experiences and help them
whenever possible. Maybe it's not very modest, but I can happily say
that I like to communicate with adults and with children, and in doing
so to me interesting. I do not know, so I turns either in a child, an
adult (not outwardly, but inwardly), by itself without being reckless or
stupid. I just have the impression that my whole inner world is divided
into several parts or parties, which appear in dealing with certain
people.

He believes that the best way to resolve conflicts - is a compromise,
which should go all parties without exception (because there is
absolutely unjust people, then there is no absolutely right). And he
went out to meet people, makes concessions readily apologize if anyone
was offended by it (even not for that) - but all this is done not only
to convince a man in his friendliness and location for him, but in order
to teach him the same friendliness and willingness to counter
compromise.

What I myself like is that I can not be offended by someone much, I have
no malice, anger, insincerity. I quickly forgive insults and remember
them no more.

And if his concessions go unnoticed, unappreciated or, even worse, will
be interpreted as a sign of weakness on his part? In EII with his
inexhaustible love is unshakeable limits of forgiveness. If he sees that
all his attempts to fix the situation is inconclusive, that this person
does not want to properly understand it, then it "fence off" from it by
an impenetrable wall of polite reluctance to have any whatsoever with
him and will not allow him close to you .



All my life I am...
-------------------

He's very attached to his family, to his friends. Quite closed;
childhood running around in the yard prefers quiet games with kids or
single homework. At school he could be intimidating noisy, aggressive
antics peers, strict and picky teacher, test and exams.

In an attempt to overcome this, he sometimes puts on a mask familiarity,
feigned cheerfulness, powered to demonstrate its power and will. But the
real problem he will be only when the mask will grow to it for life.

In EII limited circle of trusted friends, with strangers the same people
behave quite shy and very tactfully. For a while he gets accustomed to
them, evaluates them ethically. If you then come to the conclusion that
their beliefs are consistent with its system of moral values, and then
takes them to a circle (he takes the initiative to converge
infrequently), offers to meet them, is talkative and sociable, but if he
does not see any such possibility, then silence removed from them, to
the point that can get up and leave.

I'll go very hard with people, but I think I can, like no other,
boasting their friends.



The mystery of the human being is not just to live, but how to live for
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

This dreamy nature with a light, slightly sad look, and sometimes it
goes so much into his inner world, which happens to be no distinction
between their fantasies and reality.

Sometimes I do not distinguish the real world from the world in which I
live mentally. It happens from this is frightening. I have a minor
imagination and now, standing on the balcony of the ninth floor, I can
imagine that I'm on the beach, and step "to the sea."

Serious, deep, thoughtful understanding people allows him to almost
always see the possibilities of their moral improvement and the
improvement of relations between them - though not immediately and
completely, but a small change for the better brings him joy.

At first he was a rosy picture of people, a few serious disappointment
in them not giving way to them, but now in his dealings with people
outside of cheerfulness will always slip reproach, and the older he
becomes, the more it will be more visible.

Any manifestation of human dishonesty (especially their own) are causing
him great pain, he tries not to show it.

Friends know me as a smiling, cheerful person, but no one knows what
lies constant smile sometimes the pain I'm trying to drown.

In humans appreciates loyalty, duty, and reliability. In a private
conversation EII focuses not so much what they say, but as they say -
the intonation, the sincerity expressed by feelings and so on. For
example, a guilty person can not apologize to them - it will be enough
that it is internally realized his guilt and have a desire to make
amends for it.



I do not have to learn to live
------------------------------

Sometimes, once again, trying to reconcile the "irreconcilable
differences", EII sees his behavior bias and inconsistency. It's a bit
frustrating him because he gives logical key - develops it at home,
studying the objective laws, trying to work out a principle. But in the
end still does not give preference to logic, ethics and behavior.
Moreover, persistent attempts to "artificially" plant itself this
principle does not lead him to solve problems, but only to the clutter.

Objective laws of the universe "distasteful" to him that they postulate
as a necessary condition of life the existence of "the struggle of
contradictions," that is what he is trying to eliminate from human
relations, as well as, in his opinion, results in rudeness, cruelty and
violence.



A bad compromise is better than a good lawsuit
----------------------------------------------

But the use of violence in any form EII condemned in principle. He would
like it to be fully and finally removed from the human relations. He
understands that the force can make a person at some point to do what he
wants, but you can not convince him to do so always. Therefore, from its
arsenal of moral persuasion, education and re-education, he tries to
avoid willful and categorical order, the pressure command.

Almost always, the external force it perceives as a manifestation of
evil. But since evil can not be overcome by evil, and the power can not
be answered by force. Evil uses violence because it is intrinsically
weak, and have good and without the use of force sufficient funds for
his win - otherwise it would not be good. EII is not only "invented" the
principle of "non-resistance to evil," but life tends to follow it in
practice.

Believes that not anything external to restrict the freedom of people.
It takes only restraint, based on the principles of his own conscience
and sense of duty. EII and he tries to avoid dependence (eg, financial).



The work is not out of fear but out of conscience
-------------------------------------------------

EII in people very much respects the professionalism and competence. His
own business capacity is not very large: it tries to be clever and
executing the orders of competent people and believes that this is
sufficient.

Mind, so to speak, some of its "derivatives" I love, respect and admire.

It's hard to believe, but EII like to read the instructions and follow
them unquestioningly. Subconsciously, he is confident in the accuracy
and reliability of any professional advice, written on paper. If he sees
in them neglect or, worse, deliberate misinformation, it can hurt him
deeply.

He does not like to do several things at once, throw away is it better
to do one thing, but with full dedication. Attentively and even happy to
hear constructive comments on their work, clear guidance on a more
convenient method of its implementation.

Thanks to their diligence children of this type are generally well
study, carried out on time all the tasks of teachers. Even on the field
in the notebooks they assign exactly the recommended amount of teacher
cells.

EII can be difficult to bring order to their things in the room, but it
is with great diligence support order established by others. Very
economical, but of excess, unnecessary things is immediately freed.

Not just get rid of them, but also feel relief from this.

Their appearance EII tries not to stand out, its purpose - to make a
good impression on others. Vulgarities or carelessness he regards as
disrespectful to the people. But he himself is not very easy to take
care of themselves, and there is a risk that it may gradually become a
gray and insignificant in appearance. He gratefully accepted a friendly
help a loved one in the matter of its own life and convenience: the main
thing that it just was not a hint of arrogance protection.

Sensitive to the health of loved ones, care about their well-being,
ensure that they have the opportunity to rest and relax after a hard
work.



What is now happening to me, too, is part of the Universe
---------------------------------------------------------

EII externally calm and reserved, and few can imagine the emotional
richness of his spiritual experiences - he simply believes in the
"sovereignty" of the internal condition of any person and that no
"voluntarist" means to deprive him of the right to the emotions which he
developed at the moment. A man wants to be sad - then, a manifestation
of the location to it will be sad with him, and if someone is gay -
well, to share his joy, even if not of the EII for her cause.

However, it is often even unconsciously showing interest in the mood and
health of other people, their emotional state. And it is not interested
in what they are trying to "a great mind" to show others, and what they
feel actually - fatigue, frustration, resentment. He will not climb into
the soul of a man or a deliberate attempt to cheer him joy and sympathy
take him into his soul, imbued with his pain and calm, gentle words
convince you that "it's not that bad" and that "everything must get
better." If a person is really bad, it can be hard to convince to change
at the time of operation, relax, throw your worries for a short time.

Life more interesting for EII when it is filled with close contact with
the people, yet he carefully makes sure not to waste their time this
communication. Accusation such as "I am because you do not have time
..." - Very difficult to read EII, though outwardly he may not show it.

In fact, he seems to stand guard over all these "catch" and "not to
miss" in others. In a conversation with anyone gently (and sometimes
quietly and to himself) ask him when and where he should now be the
right time to remind him of his plans. EII - perfect "administrative
assistant" and to the relatives of such routines, so they can have time
to do everything on time (the people of this type usually have a good
memory).

Its great intuition may even help him to see the possible dangers in the
way of other people, and then he will warn them in time. At the same
time, trouble standing up to his full height before himself, can not
stop to see (it's easy to overcome if it is to give yourself advice as
if a stranger).

What is conscience? Personally, for my conscience - my third "I". People
can not see it or touch it. It lives deep in the soul. Perhaps, it
pushes people to improve themselves, but it is only an adviser. Obey it
or not - a private matter.



Functional description
----------------------

**First function: the ethics of relations**

Natural and complete understanding of the nature of the relationship
between any people, their likes and dislikes. A deep understanding of
the moral and ethical aspects of life. Ability to understand the desires
and interests of the people. Mercy, kindness, tact.

**The second function: Intuition opportunities**

Understanding the moral potential of the people, their inner essence.
The optimistic belief in the ultimate victory of good over evil. The
desire to increase the possibility of good and bring a high moral sense
in the actions and souls of men. Life according to the laws of
conscience. Trust, ability to wait, compassion and intelligence.

**The third function: the logic of relations**

Internal demand to themselves to be objective and principled. The desire
to understand the objective laws of the world. Priority of the
subjective over the objective. Demonstration of its judgment. Awareness,
skeptical of science.

**The fourth function: volitional sensing**

Principled rejection of the impacts to other people and the total
rejection of impacts to themselves. Soreness failure of his volitional
capacity and attempts to develop it. Decreased sense of ownership.
Peacefulness, "non-resistance to evil," reliability.

**The fifth function: the business logic**

The weakness of their own competencies. The huge interest in
professional, business and other recommendations. Thanks for the
specific and comprehensive assistance in the effective implementation of
their own work. Uncritical adherence to foreign business councils.
Diligence, passivity.

**Sixth function: sensory experiences**

Low capacity to solve their everyday problems. Tendency to "simple"
solutions in matters of aesthetics. Certain indifference to personal
appearance, sometimes resulting in the appearance of homeliness.

**Seventh function: the ethics of emotions**

Little attention to the perceived emotional state of the people.
Internal wealth of emotions. Softness, lightness show emotion.
Adjustment to their emotions in the mood of others. Care of the energy
state of close friends. Weasel, sometimes inflated joy.

**Eighth function: the intuition of time**

Unconscious desire to be informed of all events and their families to
plan their time. Understanding the value of time. Precision and
punctuality in business. Anticipation of the dangers facing the others.
Subconscious desire not to let anyone with time. Good memory, care about
someone else's time.
