Socioscope LIE
==================

Logical Intuitive Extratim (LIE, Jack London)
---------------------------------------------

   The great combinator.

So, now let's turn to the LIE.

People of this type are often found in books of Jack London. They are
easily recognized by their attraction to adventure, great vitality,
energy, ability to not lose heart and not to fall in spirit, and by
their calculating recklessness.

It seems that LIE possesses innate enterprise and luck; he better than
others understands how things work, the mechanisms of any actions, and
how and from what it is possible to extract benefit; moreover, it
doesn't has to be expressed in monetary terms.

Perhaps the first thing that strikes about his nature is the skill to
act operationally and logically. This skill is so great, that it may not
be realized and valued by him - is possible to value something that is
always near, always at hand, and always in the needed quantity?

Life for him is valuable when it doesn't deprive him of possibilities to
act, and brings him pleasure when luck smiles at him. LIE views life as
a kind of game of chance, in which someone gets lucky, and someone else
does not. And he, by all his efforts, tries to be among the favorites of
fortune, using for this all permissible (and as it happens prohibited)
methods and approaches.

LIE believes in his own success. He knows that fortune - is a capricious
lady, and loves it when she is being persistently attained. For him it's
not unusual in passion of the game to put everything that he has on
line, counting to win. As long as he believes in his own success - he is
on the top of the world, however much he has to endure. Failures don't
confuse or dishearten him: everything that happens and that is being
done, is for the best.



If you lost today - you will win back tomorrow
----------------------------------------------

Usually LIE is not approached leadership, even if to this they push
slightly its those surrounding. First frequently it is because loves
competition itself. Its rights it feels acutely and actively it
protects.

Acting, LIE divides basic task into several easily feasible subtasks,
and then properly solves them. In any matter it knows how to isolate
useful side, to carry out work by the most rapid and most effective
method.

LIE is easy to make any mechanism, to devise and to make original
technical adaptation in order to facilitate its or strange physical
labor. From the old rubbish it can gather radio receiver, light-music.
Any technology not only obeys BY LIE, but it sometimes seems that still
and it loves it.

LIE always knows (briefly) that it will make tomorrow.

    But as otherwise? I always plan its day.

In the life he tries to foresee everything, to count in advance. Before
the fact as to begin to act, it usually mentally compiles the plan of
its actions, in which he tries to consider all possible versions of the
course of events. It begins usually from the very worst version, with
the greatest losses, and then it dvizhetsya to the side of improvement.
Of time the process of planning occupies usually a little; in the simple
cases even it can seem that the solution (i.e., the same plan) arrived
instantly. But at random, it is spontaneous, "without knowing to ford",
LIE act not it will be. On the youth of years, true, it can not entirely
adequately estimate the depth of ford, but with the experience of
similar punctures it becomes considerable less.

After trying itself in one matter, LIE frequently begins to be occupied
by anything another.

    Certainly, it is necessary to try different occupations in order to understand, what they stand and that it is possible to obtain from them.

Before study anything, LIE assembles information about this matter. It
does not love to act blindly, without the preparation. Thoroughly it is
prepared for the future important measures, gathering diverse facts and
information. It will not begin the new matter, until is obtained clear
idea about how most probably will be developed events, what it is
possible to expect from its partners and so forth.

To begin one after another of ten enterprises so that at least one would
crown by success, completely in its taste. But if already it undertook
seriously something, then it attempts to bring to the end. The matter
does not love to throw on the middle.

    If 4 I do not make, pride will be fussy about food.

So it unites into the united "technological system" all its previously
accumulated knowledge from different spheres of activity.



False modesty generates the incompetence
----------------------------------------

That- that, and LIE greatly loves to tell surrounding about its
"business exploits". And as in this case (moderately!) not to boast! But
this can appear by present boasting only in small or not very clever
representatives of this type. LIE are more intelligent, the more this
resembles the poetic hyperbola, high-quality and high-quality, without
which its story will lose interest. This fascination, this magic of
fantasy, these immense prospects cast a spell, beckon and draw to
itself...

But when collocutor will come to, it will seem that Vasyuki as before
remain Vasyukami.



Ostap it bore...
----------------

Projects LIE seem convincing, since it actually could do everything,
about which he speaks, if only this it was actually necessary. LIE it is
always solidly confident in its possibilities. True, it is not always in
the course of the fact that he wants and why this to it is must. But
this problem most frequently by splinter sits in its subconsciousness
and rarely it is comprehended to the end. Is here necessary the aid of
other people, which can finally clearly and specifically raise this
question and persistently require of LIE of the solution.

Problem also in the fact that it can "carry", if it collects too great
revolutions, and it sometimes is necessary force to return it from the
skies to the culpable earth.



Time does not await!
--------------------

For LIE is actual the "time - money". This is one of its most dear
mottoes, although in reality the first it values more than the second.

    I still will earn money, but the missed time no longer you will return.

To lose time for nothing - uninterestingly or without the benefit - for
it almost what to lose the part of its life. It does not organically
transfer turns and wearisome expectation of "something good". LIE knows
how to force time to work on itself, knows how to hurry and knows how to
wait. Time for it - the material value, which cannot be squandered or
burnt. Therefore it attempts to use it maximally effectively. It even
walks very rapidly, and even it prefers to run with the possibility.
Personal transport (at least and bicycle) for it it is actual not
luxury, but business need.

Its day is oppressed by the different matters, encounters. In its
imagination it constantly anticipates events.

    I love to do rapidly everything. No one can keep up with me, 4 of all I pass!

Knowing how to virtuoso combine diverse actions, it to its legal 24
hours in days adds still several. At the same time it does not love,
when one occupation is smashed by another, when it is necessary to
simultaneously carry out several matters immediately. It does not love,
when during its work they distract, they climb with the conversations.



Forward, to the adventures!
---------------------------

LIE greatly loves to travel, to open new, "rich in gold and with the
spices of the country and island". On leisure it prefers the more not
well-organized health resorts, and the yet not passed paths.

    Leisure - this is the change of activity.

It loves to experience itself, to manifest its abilities in the fight
with different difficulties. Overcoming obstacles brings the present
pleasure to it. With any possibility it attempts to verify itself, the
possibility of its organism.

Rapidly it reacts to entire new and interesting. It draw distant they
gave; such people first rush into all risky enterprises. They believe in
themselves and therefore boldly they go to the matter, which will seem
by another present adventure.

    Risk - noble matter.

Them it constantly pulls to verify their fearlessness in reality. Any of
them independent of floor with the pleasure is occupied by mountain
climbing, tourism, etc.

In the extreme situations LIE it prefers to design only for itself, but
its arm substitutes to comrades without considering! With it it is
reliable in any march. If LIE knows that the comrade weaker him
physically, will independently take upon himself the large part of the
burdens in the way. This, in his opinion, it is correct, the main thing
- so that each would honestly do everything that in its forces.



Live itself and give to live by other
-------------------------------------

Like any representative of third kvadry, LIE acutely feels the value of
human life. Almost for all LIE even very posing of the question, that it
is possible to acquire superiority in its matters due to the strange
life, is completely immoral. At the same time he not idealist
understands: if someone is ready to pay by strange lives for its
interests, then its life is no longer protected.

So highly values health and fitness for work - its and other people.
Moreover, it will offend, if they accuse it, that it does not worry
about the health of those surrounding, their interests.

But for itself he with difficulty is succeeded in creating comfortable
conditions, surrounding itself by pleasant people and creating cosiness
(especially in the trifles). Even trying to be "at the height", LIE can
sometimes walk tattered; it completely entrusts to the taste of partner,
it can allow it in private life itself to command. If it is negligent in
the exterior view, then this seemingly courageous call by all.

    To all zanudam and to snobs.

LIE best anything receives the concrete and confident councils of
competent people about how to dress, to feed, to surround accomodation.
Phrase of the type: "it seems, for you it would be worthwhile to cut,
something pokoroche... or not, to you and so good... you so do not
think?" - it can provoke scandal.

It is important to know for it that people approve its exterior view
(but only silently). LIE it does not love, when it is examined into the
support, are evaluated its exterior view and manners, those more when
are made observations on this score.

When it badly itself feels, it does not love so that they would feel
sorry it. If it is necessary for it difficultly, it will not show this,
whining not it will be never. The impression of man with the elevated
mood is produced with the small troubles. When the matters are still
worse, it becomes even more animated, it appears merry, cheerful, even
happy. Talkativeness and rate of speech rises, tendency toward the
sharpnesses grows, violent reaction to the humor appears. Yes only in
this of not enough sincere happiness: so is manifested its shielding
reaction to the vital adversities, with which it cannot independently
manage.



Creator in all - living nature
------------------------------

Its tone raise well contact with nature, the change of impressions, the
variety of the paints of peace. It is grateful to all facts, who helps
it in this. Nature for it - living.

LIE "is potentially traumatogenic": for it are characteristic frequent
injuries, abrasions, even breaks.

Food it prefers with the "strong taste": for example - pelmeni with the
vinegar, potato with the horseradish, the kislyushchiye konservirovannye
cucumbers, are many sharp spices; if ice cream - then is icy, and not
thawed, and still such. Generally, food to it it is best to see only
already prepared and for plate; moreover the process of its use must be
maximally simplified (it does not be worthwhile to also place it before
the dilemma, which of the proposed dishes it would prefer to supper). It
is desirable to forego those dishes, which must be still "led to the
mind" - fish must be without the bones, sausage is already purified, the
walnuts not only of pokoloty, but also are thoroughly checked to the
object the presence of the splinters of shell and so on.

But generally, present disturbs it weakly, "everyday trifle" for the
significant purpose very often they descend. LIE is unpretentious to the
fact that more easily feels itself in the situation of relative
discomfort. Immediate benefits, enjoyment for it are not so important as
for many other people.



Read a little to me, if you please, morals!
-------------------------------------------

Now we approached very interesting (, also, for LIE including) question,
as it constructs its relations with the people. More precise it will
say, as other people construct their relations with it, because itself
it in the ethical matters is not strong and it is sufficiently inert.

To it it is heavily correct to evaluate the attitude of people toward
itself; it greatly does not examine strange feelings and inclinations.
But since it and in the childhood, and already being adult it associates
with the people on the close psychological distance, then this creates
to it the specific problems. Here therefore it needs the friend, who
would prompt, to whom it is possible to be entrusted, but to whom no, he
would tell about the moral potential of its surrounding people; in the
friend, whom, just as it itself, would be disposed to the honest,
constant, constant human relations, based on the confidence.

    31, posto1te- kA, and where similar to find?!

Treacheries and meannesses LIE does not pardon, it vomits relations
mercilessly and forever. Generally, if the relations between LIE and its
friend were spoiled (at least and through his own fault), it itself
hardly will go towards the friend and most likely will wait, until that
makes the first step. It does not love reticence, uncertainty in the
relations; it does not suffer, when it draw in ethical games - first
quarrels, then reconciliation, then is proximity, then groundless
cooling. In his opinion, in this case to it simply "they fool head". But
if its partner decided to tear relations with it, from his side much
more humane it will by the plain text speak about this LIE.

But "reading of morals" it receives as reward and as the concern about
itself: if they scold it - it means, they love, which means, its actions
are not indifferent for this person.

The benevolent (but not sugary) atmosphere is necessary for it. Next to
LIE must be located the people, with which it could about everything
have a talk and which would give to it information in the ethical,
estimated form.

By adolescent LIE it does not know as itself news with the
representatives of opposite floor, especially when those begin to flirt.



Girls, what to you me stick?!!
------------------------------

But so it is sufficient bestseremonen; for it nothing it is worthwhile
to address to the unknown person, to put remark into the strange
conversation. Its democratism not from the training, but from nature. It
considers that all people are brothers. It does not love to use cunning,
but he wants to be diplomatic. He tries not to reject no one to the
requests and not to give the unjustified promises (true, in not very
good representatives of this type the latter very often it occurs).

In the contact LIE he tries to raise mood to his friends, to make laugh
them, in every way possible it pulls at and pulls them. It knows how to
discharge dull situation by humor and irony, it is inclined to the
jokes, the drawings and the hitching posts, into which, however, it does
not pack offensive sense.

Generally a feeling of humor to it not to occupy. It loves to joke in
the very dangerous situations, even "under the muzzle of pistol". But on
the party LIE it can arrange so that all will from the laughter writhe
under the table.

But still LIE wonderfully knows how "to break off". Language in it is
sharp, and it into the pocket does not climb after the word. In the
enemy LIE most of all agitate dishonest tactics, game without the rules.
It does not love people, which speculate on their weakness. It is
intolerant to the lazy persons, from all forces who approach only
comfort, and also for the dodgers and the opportunists.

It is not inclined to use volitional pressure, to force people to work;
it prefers to lean on their enthusiasm, after showing them all
advantages and benefit, which this matter can bring. But itself it under
the volitional pressure becomes more energetic, it is activated, it acts
more rapid and it is more effective. LIE pleases itself, when people
relate to it demanding.



Knowledge - force
-----------------

Any information is necessary TO LIE not in order simply to examine some
abstract-theoretical questions, and in order successfully to act. The
circle of its knowledge in the region chosen as it is very wide; it can
be up to date in practically all facts, in all, which was opened or it
is invented by others. LIE tries to follow all new achievements, for
example, its personal computer is usually the "last peep" of world
computer thought and mode.

Studies, as a rule, is given to it sufficiently easily, especially all
that which is connected with the practical application of the obtained
knowledge. To the scientific theories and the hypotheses it relates just
as to the technology: they must work and be of benefit. Groundless and
not reinforced by real facts "but that, if..." it is presented to it by
the attempt simply to zamorochit' head surrounding or insolently to
avoid responsibility for its words.

    Personally 4 for my words I answer.

When it "twists itself" in some sequential business enterprise, then
does not love to be extended, that precisely and why it makes; it does
not suffer interference and importunate councils. LIE it is
subconsiously confident, that all its partners entrust its insight and
competence. In the situation of uncertainty it will mobilize and
actively searches for output from this unstable position. In his words
and behavior he tries to avoid ambiguity or ambiguities.

--------------



Functional Description
----------------------

**First Function: Business Logic**

Well developed enterprise. Skill "to make the matter". Planning all its
actions. Understanding expediency or inexpediency of any actions. High
and productive fitness for work. Skill to find the most effective mode
of operation. Tendency toward the success. Rationalization, result,
sequence.

**Second Function: Intuirtion of Time**

Foresight of the possible versions of the course of events. High speed
in the actions. Care of time. Prognostication of possible benefits.
Skill to see likely dangers and to avoid them. Business fantasizing, the
faith in the success, the "time - money".

**Third Function: Ethics of Emotions**

Understanding the expediency of the manifestation of the specific
emotions in the specific situations. The demonstration of mood and
emotions it is conformable to the formal expectations of the surrounding
people. Tendency to develop a feeling of humor. Demonstration of
optimism. In the critical situations flaunts by recklessness, "his
fellow".

**Fourth Function: sensorika of sensations**

Unfeasible desire to remove from some physical aspects of its life. The
tendency not to reach to other people of troubles in everything,
concerning their health and way of life. Desire to avoid on the
possibility of the ordinariness of life and everyday concerns.
Categorical unwillingness so that that surrounding would evaluate its
exterior view. Fear to lose health. Sometimes a certain untidiness in
the exterior view, epatazh.

**Fifth Function: ethics of relations**

Clearly insufficient understanding of moral and ethical aspect of life.
Enormous latent interest in the information about the relations between
the people. Noncritical relation to this information and the readiness
to entrust to it. Subconsious attitude to the honest and considerable
relations with all people. Unconscious expectation of aid from the side
of the surrounding in questions interrelations between the people.
Sometimes subconsious offence to the life in the case of insufficient
external protection on this aspect.

**Sixth Function: volitional sensorika**

Understanding the insufficiency of its volitional potential does not
lead to the complexes, of it not characteristically to arise into the
pose, it is said, "no - and it is not must!". Interest in the strong,
persistent people under the external pressure acts more effectively.
Reduction in the vital tone with the lowered exactingness from the side
of those surrounding. Desire of the clear degree of form of
interrelations with the surrounding people.

**Seventh Function: logic of relationships**

Taciturn interest in the existing connections between different objects
and phenomena. Tendency toward the single-valued logical conclusions.
Confidence in the correctness of its conclusions (which gives to it
confidence in the correctness of its own actions). Readiness to explain
to other people the logical aspects of their problems.

**Eighth Function: intuition of possibilities**

Strong, but not always realized interest in the new possibilities, the
business prospects. Internal readiness for the change of the spheres of
the application of its forces. Very wide, but a little surface
erudition. Refusal of the ideas, not clearly confirmed by facts. A
constant readiness to help people it is correct to estimate the content
and the possible consequences of their actions.
