Socioscope ILE
=================

Intuitive logical extravert (Don Quixote)
-----------------------------------------

   I am not like the others.

   Once upon a time, long long ago - as if it was yesterday - at dawn,
   from the gates of his house, rode out a rider on an old nag and a
   cardboard helmet on his head high. And stopped.

   The sun rose over the chain of distant mountains. The new day, like
   all the previous ones, was promising to be hot.

   The silence was so sleepy that it seemed that life itself has fallen
   asleep.

   The whole world was in full view. All roads were waiting for him ...

   ... Flick of reins ... first kick of a hoof spurred a cloud of golden
   dust ... BA-BOOM! - And the silence was broken with a roar, like
   crystal, and the world began to move again, again spun galaxies, the
   South Atlantic Gulf Stream was once again gleaming with multi-colored
   jets of water, while sleepy people began to rub their surprised from
   long hibernation eyes.

   Later, for a long time they will swear at this idiot who woke them
   up, and won't be able to get back to sleep. A new day has started, a
   new life.



And then he came up with such a strange idea, which has never occurred in none madman in the world
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If we try to trace the development of any phenomenon or objects created
by man, then at the very beginning, at the source, will always find an
idea, "a strange idea." And make no mistake - this idea first occurred
to ILE.

"Think" and "invent" for it is almost the same. In his fantasies, he
lived a thousand different lives, imagining themselves in different
situations.

Is naturally can imagine yourself to be liked kinogeroya, reading a
book, at some point, will stand on line and in your mind will continue
the story in their own way. In those few seconds of complete detachment
from reality, he can live a decent life segment invented and when wakes
up, puzzled for a moment - in what is the reality of it now?

By and large, in order to fly away into the fantasy, he had the
insignificance trifle - casually abandoned companion word, drawing on
asphalt, forms clouds. And - now just seems that ILE is still around. In
fact, he may already be on a pirate sailing ship or on another planet.

But instead of thinking about work, I began to think about the reason
the seas and oceans: what are found in the seas, whales and sharks, why
whales are so big, and that it would, if the whales were carried out on
the ground and walked on streets, and where we would live if some whale
destroyed our home.

No wonder that at that moment he ignored the question addressed to him
or examiner will travel a few extra stops on the tram. You see, this
"around here and seychasnaya" routine for him - as a five-meter pool for
dolphins can live, but what a life!

However the result of this fantasy is not the only one
absent-mindedness. This is - a way of understanding the world,
especially its new features. Combined in his irrepressible imagination
already known elements of reality, ILE creates a new reality, which
opens exciting new prospects.



Where are these giants? - Yes, here they are in front of you!
-------------------------------------------------------------

Of a million crazy ideas that ILE can "give to the surface" of his life,
at least one, but is sure to be a genius. But the point is that he does
not judge which one. Unfortunately, the vast majority of the people
around him, too, can not do it right away, but they can (under favorable
conditions) did not give it to sink into oblivion. ILE itself is
unlikely to translate their ideas into reality: it only says it is
possible, it is useful, it is very necessary - and throws them
somewhere, to someone. Let him personally they do not bring any money,
but it is much more important that his ideas have not gone to market.

My true vocation - is open and invent.

His fantasy gives not only an understanding of the potential of all that
surrounds him. It helps him in unusual cases that require a quick
decision. When he is not in personal experience, comes to the rescue
"experience" invented thousands of lives. ILE instantly versed in them
and finds almost the best way out of a critical situation. As to why he
did just that - and then be happy to explain their actions in advance
and not thought out.

However the determining factor is accumulated knowledge. If he has the
baggage is not big, and the intuition of little help. Yes, ILE is
capable of self-examination to find previously unknown to him any proof
of the theorem, but even the greatest genius would not be able to do
this without the knowledge of mathematics.



Better to rely on intuition rather than on common sense
-------------------------------------------------------

It may seem that ILE shares his real and invented lives. And sometimes
it does happen, but in this case it is completely out in the fantasy
world, forever leaving something nasty to him the reality. This is a
case of "problem" ILE. If he is good, he takes their fancy just as
different facets of real life. Yes, he loves his ideas, but also a very
real respect for life in all its manifestations. He likes to watch her
and make conclusions based on the facts that are found in his way, or
rather, that give the people around him - he has some indirect way of
looking at life. So he likes to listen to people and their judgment
about everyone and everything.

Nature often does not regret for ILE no memory, no insight. Even the
most fleeting fact is not forgotten them, and at the right time often
returns an ingenious idea. It can be very witty, and his word sharper
swords and blasting dynamite. Able to ignite controversy literally from
nothing. For some, the process of dispute ILE it more interesting
result. In this case, be prepared for the fact that he will not agree to
any practically your statement, and if you're lucky enough compelling
reasons "priperetsya him to the wall," with confidence: "I said it!"

In ILE highly developed logic and analytical skills. Based on the
appearance of minor facts can make far-reaching conclusions. He is in a
constant endeavor to establish connections between any of the phenomena
of life ... and then, sometimes recklessly, share them with someone who
first comes handy. Loves it when these abilities are recognized and
valued by others.

Can not spare time and energy to ensure that it is better to learn to do
root cause analysis. He does not like people with "sloppy" style of
thinking. According to him, everything in the world to be logical.

Monotonous, tedious work, not paperwork for ILE, at any age, he plays in
the hobby. Work will start if he could turn it into a game. He was
seriously obey any discipline and can not stand when he is required
unquestioning obedience instruction.

I can not stand organically, when I try to squeeze in a vise discipline!

In any case tends to bring something new, constantly improvising and her
plans. If there is not a person who can gently and unobtrusively
withhold his dashing aside and throwing from side to side - to fill up
everything what only dotyanet. And right there in the ruins will build
something new and interesting. His eternal creativity have time to stop
("All that is enough"), because he does not know the steps.

ILE is engaged in that interesting, but not that profitable. Information
that interested him, "seizes on the fly", but not always enough, for
example, to be successful, hence the disruption to their studies. From
the point of view of a child of this type of teacher employed only by
constantly "chew" is that all long understood.

Well versed in the ways of achieving any goals, but this seems to have
it only in order to give good advice to others. For the very same myself
usually nothing intelligent to think not. Comes a problem - and then it
will be solved but somehow advance to prepare for it or try to prevent
it is unlikely to be.

Its efficiency and enterprise given to someone else's disposal, so that
he will try other better than themselves. For ILE can always turn to the
business problems, even just a hint, and it will not immediately write
out just what or how, but he will also do everything. It will help so
long until he sees that people are able to cope with everything else
without interference.

In his promises sometimes not necessary. If he says, "Okay, okay," it
means (in most cases) that he can do what promised, but not the fact
that he would certainly do it. Circumstances change - and change his
intentions.

Time to communicate does not regret not interrupt a friendly party
because of some cases (if the matter promptly, can arrange so that it
itself over to the right for a moment.)

If I steal time, man - I steal his freedom.

Because of the distraction and nesobrannosti might be late for the
meeting. But try to find (or invent) a compelling reason to delay. He
does not like to be taught to properly allocate your time or ask to be
prudent.



All the people I do not care - I love them individually
-------------------------------------------------------

If you say that ILE tactless, it is nothing to say. Real dialogue, which
took place the day after the news of the death of a prominent
politician:

\- Oh, did you hear what happened? And what do you think? - (ILE,
enthusiastically) It's beautiful!

Honestly, it was not a bloodthirsty fanatic, and quite a good man, and
his heart is not a stone. Just the thought of his capture possible
positive change, and he did not think that the death - it is a tragedy,
especially for those who loved the man.

But from ILE difficult to demand that he acted ethically. If you are a
crowd, then the situation will become even worse. The French have an
expression "enfant terrible" (terrible child). Literally it means that
sometimes small children can still unwise to issue IS that all present
would like to bury myself.

ILE to gray hair is a child. Young children such behavior is forgiven
Well, it means that we all need to be consistent to the end.



Accept me for who I am
----------------------

ILE wants to be accepted for what it is, therefore, in itself nothing
embellishes frankly all his qualities. Stranger with whom he might then
have close contacts can tell their main shortcomings. And then ask: "And
you can boast? Until we moved in together, it would be good to know
about each other the worst."

As a child, he believes that all people are good and that they love each
other. This faith, if you are lucky and he will not face a betrayal, can
carry through life. Very easily caught the obvious slander vulnerable to
intrigue.

I do not like being in quarrels pass on personal data, do not like it
when someone is discussed in his absence, and when applied to human
beings to affect social status, nationality, skin color, etc. I even
sometimes beat. But it's not important, it's true is true.

Friends did not choose - choose it. He has a wide circle of friends, but
to determine who is better and who is worse, can not. He sees well the
worth of people, but how they relate to it and how they will behave in
certain specific cases, does not know. Because of this, he often falls
into the trap.

Sometimes, to get a little sense of this, likes to put experiments on
people, if that's to do so, what will they do? Have much to say in
response? Now try not to. What happens in this case?

So he gathers the facts on the basis of which then makes its findings.

Pretty funny and awkward when the situation requires initiatives in
expression of feelings - he knew nothing about it. This is not to say
that ILE is not capable of deep feelings, the great and sincere
affection. In the sense it is "like a dog" (or student) - understands
everything, but can not say anything. Love he shows care and protection,
but not nice words. To people tied very tightly.

ILE is prone to frequent, but short-lived quarrels with loved ones. In
this case, smooth all rough edges better for them - he only knows how to
create difficulties in communication and then naparyvatsya them. If he
sees that the people close to sincerely try to create a warm, welcoming
environment - for its part will actively assist them in this.



Simplicity is worse than theft
------------------------------

He also loves to complicate their lives, and builds it into my life
principle. The word "easy" for him synonymous with "boring." The thrill
of it is recharged. The more emotion around and panic, he actively and
confidently. You can not scare him - it has the opposite effect. If it
turns out in a difficult situation, for help usually does not go - do
not let pride and ambition.

Optimist, almost always gives the impression of an energetic and
cheerful person who can playfully tackle any problem. However, it does
happen sometimes attacks the spleen, when he did not want to do it with
no one willing to talk (and not because that someone was offended.) Can
spend days lying on the couch, his nose buried in the wall ...

... Or play for hours on the computer stupid games.

Way out of this funk is trying to find itself, for example the work
boot. But the emotional support of others will not be superfluous here.
Instant way out of depression provided if to tell him that an idea he
once gave, was classy and cool all helped.



Then we began to look for a hammer and finally found it in my hands
-------------------------------------------------------------------

All trying to meet his needs he does not like to be dependent, but
subconsciously he wants someone to take care of his daily life, comfort
and convenience. He lives in a world of ideas, and the things he does
not particularly care about them as if he does not see. Long cold look
in your bag and pockets his notebook, which is nearby, on the same
(pustom!) table.

And if that someone does not care, he can go hungry, dirty and
disheveled. In his things can be a real chaos that appealed to him.
Sometimes a really scary to go to visit a lonely ILE: it seems there
seventy years are preserved intact in the museum exposition devastation
of the Civil War.

To the needs of the body can also do not pay much attention. Simply
forget to eat or come to visit, having made twenty miles in the heat
cycling, only half an hour to remember that the "dying of thirst."

If he is sick, can hardly tell that it hurts: the doctor knows best. No
matter how ill, if he will make a verdict of "healthy", ILE will run as
usual until not fall.

Or the saga of how the ILE buying shoes. Put on one leg turned back and
forth. So nothing decided, raised his head, looked at his friend: "Well,
I'm not pressing?"

Well here you say?

I once tried to describe himself - made a list of two dozen definitions,
some of which contradict each other.

In conclusion, we give the words of one ILE, and, honestly, the best
ending you can imagine:

But it's not all that has the audacity to call me.



Functional description
----------------------

**The first function: Intuition opportunities**

And the ability to grasp the essence of things and phenomena. Generating
ideas, understanding their potential and possibilities of
implementation. The ability to recreate the whole on some parts.
Intelligence, good imagination, spontaneity, quick response in emergency
situations, confusion in the home.

**The second function: the logic of relations**

The desire to find a logical connection between any of the facts.
Ability to conduct root cause analysis, to separate the important from
the unimportant, to be logical. Tendency to the exact sciences, the
desire to explain everything from the standpoint of logic.

**The third function: volitional sensing**

Striving to create an idea of ??how strong-willed and determined person.
Analysis of the actions of others in terms of the manifestation of their
willpower. Accumulation of their experiences. Internal diffidence.
Self-criticism and rejection of foreign criticism of his own integrity,
commitment and breakdown qualities.

**Fourth function: the ethics of relations**

Lack of understanding of how people relate to each other and to him
personally. Lack of understanding of their own desires. Categorical
refusal "imposed" to someone with your feelings. Avoiding any talk about
ethics, morality and tact, unwillingness to assess how their own actions
and the actions of others in terms of morality. Or too acute sensitivity
to his own unethical, or complete lack of tact and ethics. Resentment at
"enemies", tactless, impolite.

**Fifth function: sensory experiences**

Weak sensory sensitivity. Incompetence in the establishment of comfort.
Thanks for showing the touch of care of yourself and your comfort. Trust
in the opinion of the other people on resettlement life. Resentment at
life in the event of insufficient comfort of their own existence.
Passivity, confusion, untidy.

**Sixth function: the ethics of emotions**

The desire to be cheerful and energetic. Weak ability to independently
deal with a bad mood and apathy. Periodic melancholy and fatigue.
Emotional support from loved ones is accepted with gratitude.
Subconscious expectation on their part to be commended for their own
good mood. Love the holidays, a little deliberate gaiety.

**Seventh function: the intuition of time**

Ability if necessary to structure their and other people's time.
Unconscious sense of time. Unwillingness to take advice and
recommendations on the timing of their actions. Rejection of foreign
warnings of possible dangers. Distribution of their advice and warnings
to close people. Unwillingness of others to fail over time. Punctuality
(or sverhpunktualnost), does not notice the danger in their path.

**Eighth function: the business logic**

Subliminal track all issues related to business. Stubborn and hidden
from the attention of others the desire to be always in the know of
other people. Constant tacit suggestion of his business skills.
Willingness to come to their aid. Discreet and nevypyachivaemaya work.
Complete and not always aware of the responsibility for their actions.
Unwillingness to harm people in their affairs. Waiting for them silent
gratitude for their service. Altruism, belittling the value of their
services.
