Socioscope EIE
===================

Ethical Intuitive Extratim (EIE, Hamlet)
----------------------------------------

    *"You think you know me?*

    *You will never know me!"*

Hamlet is the most mystically-inclined type in the socion. It only seems
that he lives here upon this culpable, sinful earth. In actuality he
lives more fully in his own inner, spiritual world.

If we look at things on the ordinary, everyday level, then before us
will appear simply a nervous person who (clumsily) drops everything. But
this level, a level which is quite frustrating even to himself, only to
a small degree reflects the true nature of the EIE.



Live with danger and die with glory
-----------------------------------

In ancient China there was a curse: "May you live in interesting times."
Indeed, cultural disturbances, wars, revolutions, and other critical
epochs are interesting only when you read about them or see them
portrayed in films. However, to actually live during such times -- this
is a bane to all.

That is, to all except the ethical-intuitive extravert.

And this is no coincidence. Indeed, the EIE considers colorful,
dramatic, romantic emotions the most significant assets of his soul. If
there is no strife or turmoil present, Hamlet will masterfully create
it. He is always internally primed to act on impulse, to succumb to
mutinous desires, as it is, for him, difficult to sit completely still
for several seconds.

Outwardly he is usually calm and placid, but beneath the surface he is
constantly seething. He possesses rich imagination. He involves himself
with all that is beautiful and particularly mysterious.

   I simply cannot live if there is no purpose, if I am to sit idly
   without any obstacles to overcome.

Anyone, even fleeting, he attempts to return a feeling up to the end.
Semitones, the life of half-strength; dull, vapid feelings -- these are
almost a crime to him.

Incidentally, this makes it easy for Hamlet enter into the state of
passion: to casual observers it seems that at that point, he can notice
nothing but the red flag which causes him the explosion of emotions. In
this state he is capable of almost everything: fortunately, it lasts for
no more than a few seconds. In this case, one should rapidly switch his
attention to another equally attractive, but less dangerous object. Two
strong emotions in his soul do not get along simultaneously.



Either all or nothing
---------------------

In all of his life fire and ice war within his soul -- but his heat does
not warm, but rather burns, and his cold does not cool, but freezes
instead.

   The rebellious spirit of the EIE requires the blessing of God. Most
   likely, it was for the possession and were fighting the forces of
   good and evil. Unfortunately, with mixed results.

Some representatives of this type, to a greater or lesser extent,
represent themselves as elected officials of higher powers, as
instruments for achievement of their divine purposes. This, by the way,
leads to reduced self-restraint -- what is it, if all their actions must
answer to those who govern them henceforth?

If Hamlet does not feel the presence of a higher power, it starts to
seem to him that his life is incomplete. Therefore he listens with
fixed, rapt attention to the entirety of strange, unusual, and
mysterious occurances happening around him -- and suddenly the
long-awaited sign of God's prompt? And if this is true, what exactly
does He want from him? How to find the truth?

Incidentally, Hamlet may not believe in God, but he will nevertheless be
confident in the existence of the devil.



Fate and passion is the essence of life. Yes! And power!
--------------------------------------------------------

Meanwhile EIE at any age does not transfer supporting parts, does not
like to submit. Prefers to be the ideological leader among the comrades.
It externally imperceptibly tightens to itself(himself) suitable people
with whom it would like to deal. Most of all from them it respects
ordered, purposeful, able to achieve the .

I like to take from them for myself the necessary information.

The concept "company" for EIE sacred, will protect "" up to the end (or
while they will not cease to be "").

About what EIE spoke, its information has, as a rule, tendentious
character. With its help it it is masterful manipulates associates.
Before the organized group of people it becomes more cautious, its
elements - crowd, which it perceives as a material for achievement of
the (not always advertised) the purposes. It is able to feel practically
instantly its mood and to direct it to the necessary party for
itself(himself).

If people in confusion, indecision, only it can rescue a situation from
a failure, having caused at them the necessary emotions. To it under
force to inspire their and stories behind itself.

Possessing congenital artistic talent, " on public " EIE organically
enters into the necessary image. On a tribune during meeting it lives a
full life. To it it is easy zazhech people, to cause in them enthusiasm.

EIE enough early understands advantages of high position and authority.
Already at school starts to think of the future career. Authority for
EIE - first of all authority above people: that as much as possible
people submitted to it, and above it them was as small as possible. We
shall tell, if EIE director of any enterprise it is engaged not actually
in manufacture, and supervises over its workers: closely watches their
moods, the most important is engaged in incessant rearrangements of the
staff and, emotionally carries away them behind itself to new victories
and achievements.



I do not play other people's games - I play my game
---------------------------------------------------

Those who are critical of his goal\|purpose cause him [the strongest
hostility\|severe aversion]. They are automatically labelled as traitors
and turncoats. He revenges them delicately and elegantly.

Hamlet shrouds every person who falls into his field of vision in an
invisible cloak under which they unwittingly become guinea pigs,
deprived of any opportunity to defend themselves. Hiding behind the mask
of goodwill, he skillfully extracts necessary information from the
interlocutor. He skillfully uses sincere interest, intrigue, and cunning
for this purpose. In general, any means is resorted to.

   It does not matter how I obtain the necessary information -- the
   result is what matters.

Such information is vital to Hamlet. It is not easy for the interlocutor
to resist his "magical" influence. Hamlet must not only "calculate"
potential enemies and competitors, but to also always have a potential
scapegoat near at hand in case events start to develop in an
unfavourable direction.

Such people are more likely to become internally independent person.
First, they cannot provide the necessary information. Second, they are
difficult to understand. Hence, they are automatically enlisted as
"unreliable". But people "with their own mind" in particular discompose
Hamlet.

   Hamlet recognizes the right to exclusive feeling only for himself.



You must understand that something is not right here
----------------------------------------------------

He possesses the ability to find problems for himself [on the flat
place\|just at home]. Silence, calmness, and well-being disgust\|irritate
him.

   It is boring when nothing happens.

In such a situation he may start to intrigue just like that, without
specific purpose. He will fan\|inflate a conflict because of a joke or
will pursue relations. In quiet situations it is difficult for Hamlet to
stimulate himself to action in any business.

The family of Hamlet is the foundation. That is where order (no chaos
and confusion) must prevail\|reign. Everything must be in (their
rightful) place. In all situations, Hamlet demands full confidence from
his relatives in the way he assesses other people: "Trust me, but do not
take his argument into account. You are to choose either him or our
family!"

Family turmoil -- the most dramatic events for him. He zealously
preserves the foundations of his family "fortress", does not
condone\|pardon adultery and betrayal. The child-Hamlet very badly
transfers scandals of parents and all the more their divorce. It can
leave emotional scars in him.

Hamlet is also engaged in the process "of sharing on the validity" with
pleasure. In the family, he clearly divides responsibilities between
members of the household and closely watches for their precise
fulfillment. The result is not so much important as the process. For
example, one Child [EIE] hung out for his brother, with whom he lived in
one room, a schedule for cleaning, and also for walking dogs. In these
matters, improvisation is unacceptable for him.

Hamlet feels the world of materiality badly. He is in dire need of
concrete and silent care from his associates of the physical conditions
of (his) existence. He does not like it, for example, then they inquire
after his health and spirits.

   This alarms me. If they pursue this, then it would be desirable to
   [fill a muzzle\|gag them].

Everyday life and food for Hamlet is a responsbility with he would
gladly shift onto someone else. If he has to assume it nonetheless, then
he tries to manage with the extreme minimum of affairs.

He attentively relates to the impression that his appearances makes on
his surroundings. He believes that he must look attractive, [to be
always be at height (at his peak?)\|always look his best]. He prefers
classical but stylish clothes; he is very much involved with the style
of military uniforms. He likes to apply extravagant accessories. The
colors in clothing and cosmetics are mainly bright and catchy.

Food is never a cult for Hamlet. This for him is a rather tiresome
obligation [on the maintenance of forces]. He prefers food that are
sharp, causing strong tastes.

   In five minutes I no longer remember that I ate.

He is very sensitive to the health of his loved ones. This is
particularly noticeable when he is sick. The treatment of the household
will be organized at the highest level.

Hamlet will not take another's thing without demand\|permission; in
someone else's house he will not even dare to move the chair on which he
sits to a more convenient location.



It goes without saying that I am right!
---------------------------------------

When you listen EIE, the impression, that before you umudrennaja life
experience the person is made. When you will look at its acts it is
possible to be seized by a head - logically they do not give in to any
explanation. Illogicalness of its behaviour frequently gets also its
most in deadlock.

It is necessary to tell what get in deadlock EIE can only on own fault.
Anybody another cannot tire out it in a corner, it will always manage to
be turned out: to leave from impact, to substitute another or to hang
all dogs on the most attacking. In such situations EIE it is practically
unsinkable. How many its time managed to be put on both lopatki, it will
selflessly convince all spectators, that it was its triumphal victory,
until then while all in it really will be not not believed. A secret of
persuasiveness that it and itself during this moment sincerely trusts in
it.

During the fight the Victory all the same can spend very effective brain
washing of the opponent of type " will for me! ".

What, slippery I?

It loves not a simple victory, and effective, with fireworks and
fanfares, and at any cost aspires to it.

For example, in cards it all time tries to hang up to the partner of the
six (and loses because of it). At the same time sometimes it seems, that
it will prefer a quiet victory bright defeat.

To achieve the, can use strong enough means, for example - threat of
suicide. Is better will cool emotions confidence of associates that this
" romantic tragedy " actually not so witty joke; here important
precisely to sustain the necessary tone and to not overdo.

Constant doubts and indecision do not allow to develop to the full to
its strong-willed qualities. At the same time, if there is a concrete
and significant purpose for it, EIE to not stop. Itself EIE the purpose
to itself does not put, it searches external filling of the life by
sense and the maintenance. To it it and is involved with purposeful,
strong-willed people who can incur and the full responsibility for its
actions.

In a life there should be an order! What was the head, it is necessary
to respect with it as olitsetvorenie this order.

From associates it waits for the order and the law on the basis of which
it can construct the life already independently. When EIE enters teenage
age, from it it is necessary to demand more, differently at it the
vitality goes down and there is a loss of interest to affairs and
employment. But it cannot suffer prikaznogo tone: the attitude to it
should be valid and correct, without familiarity. EIE at all does not
bear slanting sights in the party.

In critical situations EIE operates under influence of feelings and
intuitions. During its such moments that sometimes it operates
illogically does not interest at all. For example, it can rush - one! -
in fight with the whole crowd, not thinking at all about possible
consequences. It during this moment does not have any calculation, and
it will fight up to the end - or in it will hammer up to polusmerti, or
opponents will recede in fear before its recklessness.

Much more circumspectly it operates, if knows, that it should be
responsible for own initiative. Here it will make of the decision very
cautiously that at any moment it was possible to leave in a shadow. If
there is no sanction of higher bodies, it will long tighten acceptance
of the important business decision. Someone who confidently would tell
is necessary to it: " Do it! " - also could prove the words logically.

In work EIE honesty carries out the functional duties in the event that
is guided by the checked up techniques.



The enemy is there where nobody is around
-----------------------------------------

It concerns to people with suspicion: quickly enough gets confidence,
that in a shower of any, even the crystal-clearest and fair person there
is a natural predisposition to meanness, meanness and bribability and in
suitable conditions it necessarily comes up outside. It likes to cause
people on frankness to probe possible " a degree of their meanness ".

But its suspiciousness actually only hyperindemnification primary,
surprisingly naive, sometimes even any children's trustfulness. It is
born with belief in people. But in a real life, getting often because of
it vprosak, it starts to suspect others that they always hold against it
a stone in the bosom.

As EIE the born strategist and the fine actor in the speech it tries to
not suppose statements which finally can turn back against it. But if
someone then will blame for its words to it, it absolutely easy and can
unperturbably refuse them.

Generally people of this type are more tremendous are hardy and
practically unsinkable. They even can is thin to feel approach of the
natural abnormal phenomena. The natural circle of their interests
includes mysticism, magic, religion. All of them, to a greater or lesser
extent, trust in destiny, able to notice fatal accidents and
concurrences in vital artful designs and dramaticheski to tell about it
to associates. Words "fate", "fatal" constantly sound in their speech.

In any company EIE, externally imperceptibly and silently, is able to
put itself in the center of attention, as though draws associates to
itself, drawing of their attention the original behaviour. And it really
is able to submit itself(himself) as the non-standard, not ordinary
person. At its presence it is difficult to continue to be engaged in the
private affairs, especially if it has put before itself(himself) a
definite purpose.

In skill "to infect" other people strong, sometimes even passionate,
desire to achieve under its management of its own Purpose - main force
EIE. It, as magnifying glass, concentrates another's aspirations and
directs their all energy there where itself considers it necessary.

In aspiration to reach Purpose EIE will not stop before what, and never,
under no circumstances it does not recognize itself(himself) won.



An Overview
-----------

**First Function: Emotional Ethic**

Vivid, colorful, dramatic emotionalism. Rich abundance of sincere
experiences and feelings. Inclination toward the dramatization of
events. Ability to accurately gauge of the mood of others and to
influence it. Ability to induce emotions in himself and others,
management of another's emotional condition. Propensity to provoke
powerful reactions and impressions in others and to be thus affected
himself. Romanticism, passion and fervency, elements of tragedy,
maximalism, mirth and jocundity.

**Second Function: Intuition of Time**

Skill to see succession of events and to approach the necessary moment.
Desire and skill to fill the life and a life of surrounding people
bright and significant events. Good sensation of time. Ability of a
prediction of a possible outcome of a situation. Aspiration economically
to use time. Fatal destiny, impetuosity.

**Third Function: Business logic**

Understanding of necessity of professionalism. Independent search of new
receptions and ways of actions. Adherence to already tested and reliable
methods of work. Studying of the mechanism of activity of other people.
Sometimes sensation of uncertainty and insufficiency of the business
abilities. SHablonnost in behaviour, conservatism, unwillingness to
perceive criticism in the address.

**Fourth Function: Experiential Sensing**

Obvious priority spiritual before corporal. Basic refusal of well-being
for the sake of self-affirmation. The desire whenever possible to avoid
the ordinary of a life and household cares. Categorical aversion of any
estimation of the appearance from associates. Aspiration to not deliver
to other people of troubles in questions of their health and a life.
Eccentricity, ignoring of the physical needs, sometimes ascetism.

**Fifth Function: Structural Logic**

Following to laws of the system adequating to criteria of its
expediency. Expectation from people of system thinking and
predictability of behaviour. Aspiration to the order in own life and in
a society. Categorical aversion of the disorder and lawlessness.
Primitive logic.

**Sixth Function: Volitional Sensing**

Respect of purposeful and strong people. Desire precise oformlennosti
all phenomena of world around. Aversion of instability and uncertainty
of any situation or position. Decrease in a vitality at the lowered
insistence from associates. The big respect for "integral" (purposeful)
people.

**Seventh Function: Relational Ethic**

Following to the norms of politeness accepted in a society. Constant
latent supervision over moral qualities of other people. Propensity to
fast conclusions about their moral potential, absence of readiness to
change the first impression. Unwillingness to listen to another's
advice. Unshakable confidence of own correctness. Skill to gain people,
the suspiciousness which is sometimes not noticed by it impoliteness.

**Eighth Function: Intuition of Possibilities**

Enduring interest in mysticism, occultism, and in new scientific studies
and advancements. Search for new areas of application for his unique
talents and aptitudes. Extensive but perhaps slightly superficial
erudition. Quick, correct, but incomplete understanding of the internal
essence of others. Constant readiness to help those close to him
correctly assess the fundamental nature and possible consequences of a
scenario. Earnestness, prescience, intellectualism.
