Socioscope SEE
=================

Sensory ethical extravert (Napoleon)
------------------------------------

    *I want!*

SEE always wants something. And if he wants to be sure it will take.
Well, if you can not take, then buy it. Can not Buy - Exchange. But
anyway, this thing will be his.

SEE not want that anyhow, and the best, most beautiful, all jealous.

I do not hide.

Child-SEE - this is a strong, domineering personality. A girl of seven
years creating a lot of problems to parents: she fights with anyone who
contradicts her in something. And most importantly, that she wins even
in a fight with the boys.

Such a child will never have to hurt themselves or their friends. SEE
never shows his weakness, since childhood, never cries in public.

Harder than I do, the worse - I would like a string. I never cry, do not
scream.

He also does not like to dismiss the other nurses.

I hate mumble.

SEE does not like being alone. Without the people, he withers. And if a
child does not suffice to communicate with people, there is a good
chance that he will grow up with psychological problems. He loves to go
on a visit, on a holiday, crowded places, to invite friends home and
friends.

Even he likes to control people, or rather, it is in the blood. The
chief-SEE everything must be subordinated. He is calm and satisfied with
life. Otherwise, it can not work. If someone is at fault, then it's just
so he will not get away with. This person will be punished, "so that
others did not have povadno."



Beat of their own to others feared
----------------------------------

But it is, if SEE-chief. In everyday life, it is softer, more delicate,
more calmly.

SEE never shows his negative emotions in public, because of the fact
that someone can be upset, someone becomes ill.

Some representatives of this type of life there are only two main things
that they dream of - money and power over people. By this they seek all
sorts of ways, and to do that, no disdain.

It can not be convinced to give up their goal, but you can change it to
one that is more noble and elusive. He set realistic goals and wants to
achieve them.

If I see a purpose, I start kicking.

Well, of course, not without it. After all, all good, even lie. Although
he does not love her, but respects (she had ethical). And theft is also
going, and flattery, and flirting. Because it will benefit if gets its
way by any means, and does not care what they say suggests otherwise.
The main thing - what he thinks.



You stole, stole, well, what else is criminal?
----------------------------------------------

Well he manages to get his own, managing people, influencing their
opinions. It's not hard to SEE, even the soul.

SEE often becomes a "chameleon." And he also likes.

How I even ... Well, as I say ... proud of you!

He understands how people want to see it, and can act accordingly (good,
calm, gentle, harmful, evil and so on). But finally adapt to the people
not to prefer them to dictate.

He loves beautiful, extravagantly dressed. SEE girls can dye your hair
is in green, the color purple - for effect.

Of course, because I'm a foolish man.

Where it is - there is no boredom. He will not get bored. Creepy
troublemaker.

Not the right word - the detonator.

But if the company can not stir, if everything is strict, serious, all
zaumnichayut (eg, scientific conference on physics - well, brought it
there by mistake, it's too bad for you!), The SEE discouraged. He is
bored and wants to get away quickly from there. Indeed, it is difficult
to give exact science. He can not stand logical thinking here around one
boredom and indifference.

Likes and dislikes SEE very volatile. His condition is dependent on the
behavior of other people. If someone fell out quickly and forget
revenge.

Has a lot of friends, but only trusts a very close and trusted friends
that a little bit.

Adult SEE like serious neboltlivye, highly educated, looking a little
gloomy people. Can not hide the contempt for unpleasant and stupid
people. He likes to control people. He needs to be subordinated to at
least one person.



Anyway I'll be the best!
------------------------

Very fond of and parties. It can be the center of attention, attracting
admiring glances (opposite sex). Favorite topics of conversation -
literature, art, movies ... and their own success.

I can not stand a society where the only topic of conversation -
anecdotes. From long idle talk, gossip, quickly tired.

Like comfort, wealth and luxury. Loves to travel, especially abroad.
Rest should be comfortable, with amenities, with excursions, not just
lying on the beach. Likes expensive restaurants, chic suits, cool cars.

I love orchids, I hate daisies and roses.

The clothes prefers elegant and classic style. I'm sure that dress
extravagant and tasteful. Loves bright and saturated colors, often red
and black. However, sometimes the SEE (especially youth) can go too far
with extravagance and avoid vulgarity.

I can not wear a long one and the same thing, I love the diversity in
the clothing and footwear.

Knows how to make compliments to find exactly the words that will be a
pleasant companion. Knows how to please and charm. Uses this to their
advantage. In business communication, successfully uses flirting.

He likes to seem all-knowing and competent in all areas, but in the
depths of the soul is not so confident in your knowledge. Do not like
being lectured, corrected it, and criticize his logic. If the person
starts talking intellectual, no longer listening to him. When he says
something, it is easy strays from the topic. Long talk about one can
not, every new idea takes him away from the topic.

Dry, calculating logic prevents his terrible life. It kills its
spontaneous creativity, ethical game - what he is particularly strong.

SEE a lot of time spent on the job. Prefers to practice. It would be
hard to start any work, when it is not clear how it will go further. If
they successfully overcome the first stage, then finishes it with
enthusiasm. He likes to contrive something new, but it is always
difficult to start and finish simple. Prefer to plan their work, instead
of doing it spontaneously, but does not always fulfill their plans.
Begins long, long last get started. For the latter is characterized by
rapid growth.

A distinctive feature of SEE-ambition. All the same, in what - at work,
in appearance or something else.



If I do something decided, I'll do it
-------------------------------------

SEE has to get his come what may. If he has something (or someone) like
it, I'm sure it's his. The greater the obstacle, the more it will.

I love the state of struggle, set high bar.

He would not give up until he gets his own or until finally broken. Got
what they fought for many years, can quickly abandon it - it turned out
it's not what he wants. A feeling of guilt for not, because it's his
tricked.

Unwell developments. Time can not navigate and be trapped. SEE would
like to see the people around him talking about the possible bends and
changes in its affairs. Grateful to those who help to foresee the
development of events. Listen carefully to the warnings about the
dangers that may lie in wait for him on his way. But the act will still
be on its own.

He does not stand a really, when he is required to act thoughtfully and
intelligently - this he did cease to be the logic. The work often can
not see what should be done first and what can wait. Need someone else
pointed out to him the most important and urgent. Actually, he would
like to see the people around told him what and when to do it.

SEE has a large charge of optimism and self-confidence. If someone would
tell him about a possible failure, it is only podzadorit bring the case
to the end. He even likes it when criticizing his job (but not him) - it
means that people do not care what he does.



You can not burn bridges behind
-------------------------------

SEE if he wants, he can woo almost anyone. Basically, it all will find a
common language.

I've adapted to all people.

That's right! He is able to come to the people "with the right hand"
(for him). He will be all on good terms. Even if a person does not like,
it is still in touch with him to vomit will not.

Who knows, maybe he still is useful to me.

But he may quarrel with a man - as if just out of a whim. In fact, this
is often because of his confidence that this man encroaches on the
authority and power over people. No rivals next to him does not want to
have SEE! However, then he can make peace with the newly enemy (if it
will be needed).

Sometimes, when the SEE heightened senses instability of his position,
he often quarreled and reconciled, which apparently it is not like a
very successful game, "Do any of you today will be my enemy, and who -
other?". This game usually ends up that he did not remain friends.



And that she no ban!
--------------------

SEE can not stand when it infringes on freedom when trying to limit its
actions.

Just let someone try it!

But he is not only fighting for their freedom, but also for the freedom
of others. Figuratively speaking, if his "go to jail", he did not run
away from it, and will carry its walls and thereby liberate the rest.

He wants not only to command the people, but they have a clear, and not
exaggerated authority. SEE for this constantly makes all others prove
their quality - moral, intellectual, business, volitional, and so on and
so forth (SEE little tip: the more of this kind of evidence before it
scatters around him, the less they have to this belief).

SEE itself, especially in youth, largely judge the people "dress for
success."

It tends to get a good education, learning refined manners and the
ability to conduct business talk. Sometimes he tries to develop a
clearly opposite qualities, not even noticing that they are not very
much and shared (for example, to be a successful business woman,
seductive lady, caring mother - and all this at a time).

SEE feels a constant craving to assert its authority over that, and so
it belongs to. A heightened sense of "its" and no one will give it to
encroach.

The new company can behave as if it is a hundred years old with all the
familiar - jokes, quickly moving closer to the people and, more
importantly, immediately begins to control everything and everyone. But
you can do it yourself and "without a second thought," that almost no
one believes it arrogance or tactlessness.

Prefers to solve business problems, based on personal, rather close
relationship. Girls dress up for exams SEE even sexier and more
attractive than usual (it is worth considering that they always try to
dress sexy and attractive).

SEE do not like a lot of clothes, because it constrains their physical
freedom. To feel comfortable, they need to control as much of the space
around - the wide-opening doors, windows, no heavy curtains.

My room has to be the biggest!

He does not like to wait - SEE need all at once! Even hard to part with
the fact that temporarily fell into his hands.

It can be very interesting for him. He knows how to lighten the mood,
can captivate the most "unaffordable" for its vibrant human activity.
The company conducts itself so that everyone had a good and smooth mood,
without any emotional ups and downs.

I want that all was well - no explanation of the relationship or bad
"neighing"!

SEE usually enjoy great success with the opposite sex. New person they
can seem just those who may like him, almost ideal, because they are
thin feel the desire of others. Just do not think that SEE will be the
"ideal" always. In fact, he wants other people to adapt to him, not he
to them. He is the way he is, and that's not enough!

This is a generous and strong nature, which knows what it wants. SEE is
able to rule without limiting the freedom of others. He is confident in
his abilities, failures just reinforces its activity and the desire to
achieve his goal. He literally charges surrounding his energy and
determination.

That's the same!



Functional description
----------------------

**The first function: volitional sensing**

Huge commitment. Accurate estimate of the power potential of the people
around them. Ability to get their way, no matter what the obstacles. A
strong will, perseverance, a natural desire for power.

**The second function: the ethics of relations**

The desire to always follow their wishes. Excellent understanding of the
desires of others. Ability to adjust to any person the right attitude.
The ability to play on human desires and weaknesses. Open communication
with the people. Democracy, communicative, friendly and demonstrate
interest and ability to win the conversation.

**Third function: intuition of possibilities**

The desire to be thoughtful and understanding, intelligent person. The
desire to get a good education. Little understanding of what are the
other people, the phenomena of the world. Demonstration of confidence in
the quality of their knowledge, accompanied by internal uncertainty in
this. Superficiality, sometimes ignoring complexities.

**The fourth function: the logic of relations**

Very little understanding of the relationship between the phenomena of
the world. Tactical inability to keep the selected line. Confusion and
inconsistency in behavior. Categorical rejection of any external
requirements to behave reasonably and thoughtfully. Moodiness, ignoring
logic.

**The fifth function: the intuition of time**

Inability to predict events. Little sense of time. The inability to see
their business unpromising beginnings. Subconscious belief that everyone
around to warn him of the possible troubles. Many thanks for the
information. Credulity, improvidence.

**The sixth function: the business logic**

Not much acumen. Poor understanding of the mechanism of complex actions.
Thanks for the business, direct help. Opportunity with great effort to
learn how to solve their business problems. The desire to be a
professional interest in the business advice, attraction to business.

**Seventh function: sensory experiences**

Ongoing evaluation of the appearance of other people. Disrespect for
careless people. The desire to create your loved ones comfortable living
conditions. Internal consumer willingness to help, if asked about it.
Giving people good advice on how they look, but he can not follow them.

**Eighth function: The Ethics of emotions**

Unconscious deep responsibility for the mood of people around. The
ability to skip to the people of their negative emotions. The ability to
"stir up" any person. Emotional restraint, display cheerfulness,
optimism, manipulating emotions.
