On the Essence of Vectors of Social Progress by Dovgan
================================================================

| Published by :doc:`A. G. Dovgan <dovgan>`, 2005.
| `Original article. <http://socionics.kiev.ua/f/index.php?showtopic=601>`_
| The **Right** / **Left** dichotomy is often referred to as :doc:`Process / Result <process_result>` or :doc:`Involutionary / Evolutionary <process_result>` in Reinin traits, where "right"
  orientation corresponds to Process, Evolution, while "left"
  orientation corresponds to Result, Involution.


Part One: The two vectors of social progress
--------------------------------------------


Evolution and involution as two vectors of social progress
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The founder of Socionics Aushra Augustinavichiute has introduced the
concept of social progress as the essence of the functioning of the
collective mind of the socion. In her opinion, "every type carries out
its own part of the social request - the social function of its own
intellect." The four rings of the benefit are a simple and reliable
system for converting the needs and concerns of all types into the
system of social requests - this is the engine of progress, that
manifests in emergence of new ideas and their subsequent implementation
into reality" (A.A. "The theory of intertype relations").

These rings of social progress can be divided into two parts - :doc:`"right" and "left" or "evolution" and "involution" <process_result>` that
separate the dual dyads within each quadra. The "right" evolutionary
direction of social request is characterized by movement from 1st to 4th
quadra; in the left involutionary direction the movement is from 4th to
1st quadra. The right ring of progress realizes the main direction of
social development, while the left ring corrects this process and
creates variants contributing to social growth.

Common approaches to the understanding of the two directions of social
progress as a process of evolution and involution are described in the
V.V. Gulenko's :doc:`"On the Waves of Aging and Renewal: Progress orientation in combination with Jungian characteristics" <waves_aging>`
07.01.1996, Kiev. He examines the concept of evolution and involution in
several ways.

1. In general philosophical terms:

   "Evolution reflects *ontogenesis* - that is, the deployment of
   existing capacity; involution - *epigenesis*, the emergence of new
   forms, folding, accumulation and storing of the energy, leading to
   sudden bursts of new life. Evolution unfolds the spiral of
   development into a straight line, defining its horizontal trajectory.
   Involution to the contrary winds this spiral, thus encoding new
   frontiers of development - its vertical trajectory. Evolutionary
   development is characterized by smoothness and uniformity.
   Involutionary development is intermittent and irregular."

2. In biological terms:

Evolution and involution reflect two sides of the Darwin's law of
natural selection.

   "The emergence of mutations is nothing else but *involution*, the
   dominance of left forms. Their selection or reinforcement in the
   process of adaptation corresponds to *evolution*, the predominance of
   right forms."

   Left types disturb the homeostasis, and restoring it is
   responsibility of the right types. Victory of one of these directions
   leads to certain death. Such deaths will be different. "Right" death
   comes from the gradual cooling, fading, falling into old age. "Left"
   death is quick, it comes from overheating, oversaturation of the
   organism leading to an explosion, the overabundance of youth."

3. In cybernetic terms:

   "Evolution, or a circular progression, corresponds to a negative
   feedback, and involution - to positive. Involution leads to unstable
   exponential growth. Evolution leads to stabilization of the
   parameters vital to life.

   "Right" progress means preservation and repeatability. Over time it
   gradually fades because such development represents aging, gradual
   deterioration. There is a loss of energy, but accumulation of more
   and more information. Involution ... occurs as a sharp jolt; steep
   change, sharp phase transition. In other words, the movement from old
   to new, rejuvenation, revitalization. ... Involution winds into a
   coil, concentrating the energy required for sudden push. This
   accumulation of energy is proportional to the loss of information
   resources of the system."

Thus, to summarize and supplement the above statements, the two
directions of development can be described as follows.

Evolutionary development takes place gradually and is characterized by
increasing complexity of the social systems, transfer of energy of
people and natural resources into information and its reification amidst
the prosperity of civilization.

Involutionary development proceeds rapidly and irregularly. It is
characterized by mutations, jumps, simplification and reorganization of
the social system, winding of social information and the release of
social energy. It is the movement in reverse, from artificial
civilization to the natural environment.

Evolutionary progress, passing the stages of childhood and adolescence,
leads to a highly developed society that is overloaded with information.
This movement proceeds through violent stages that waste of energy and
eventually to the slow fading amidst the excess of information and
culture. The evolutionary development of a human being in its
hypertrophied form leads to the appearance of "homo-computerus"
possessing massive brain but an atrophied body, living in a completely
artificial technologically processed and modified environment.
Information processes of such person are so complicated (due to the need
to control such overly complicated style of life) that their management
takes up a lion's share of this person's time and energy.

Involutionary path goes in the opposite direction, from old age to
young, from death to rebirth. This is the path of rejuvenation,
regeneration, stripping of information of society and release of social
energy. This is the path bath from society burdened and overloaded with
information and complexities into "society of energy". Involutionary
progress leads to simplification of life but an excess of vital energy,
the restoration of harmony with the natural environment. In its
hypertrophied form it leads to conversion of civilized society back to
more primitive, traditional forms.

The evolutionary development of society is particularly important in the
early stages, when it is necessary to ensure rapid growth, progress and
increasing complexity of social systems. Involutionary development is
corrective - it returns to the society to the peak of its productivity.
Its value is especially important when one wants to reform society,
clear out the debris of accumulated problems, make the overly
complicated ineffective systems become manageable once again, i.e. for
preventing premature aging of society.

Lets call the state where social system and individuals exist in a
balanced state with respect to information and energy as "optimal". This
state corresponds to the transition phase between youth and maturity. It
represents blending of the peak of the vital forces with social
productivity. At the 2002 conference, V.V. Gulenko has stated that in
the quadra progression one can notice a prolonged struggle between 2nd
and 3rd quadra, which take turns to displace each other in the struggle
for power. This phenomenon reflects the self-correcting mechanism of
society aimed at extending the optimal phase. During this phase there
are periodic returns from the 3rd quadra of maturity to the 2nd quadra
of youth - the process of involution. Thus the alternation of the
processes of evolution and involution are necessary for the maintenance
of society at its optimum. The evolution guides society along the path
of progress, while involution prevents its premature aging.

The evolutionary direction of development (conversion of energy into
information) dominates and according to the law of entropy of energy it
wins in the end. Then society leaves the pulsating phase of struggle
between the central quadras and slides into prosperous extinguishment in
phase of the 4th quadra, which can last a very long time in its intact
relic state, until in enough energy is accumulated in involutionary
processes to start a new life cycle.

Differences between left and right types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The evolutionary/involutionary orientation of types is an important
defining factor in their styles of thought and behavior. Lets consider
the differences between evolutionary (right) and involutionary (left)
types at four levels: physical, psychological, intellectual and social.

Physical level
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Orientation of activity towards process or result.

   Left types can produce results basing on poorly functioning process.
   They start from larger parts and leave smaller parts for the later.
   Right types excel at coordinating and fine-tuning of the processes.
   While working they are scrupulous. They work through material
   carefully, taking into consideration all the details.

Rate of activity.

   For the right types there is characteristic tendency for smoothness
   and consistency, for the left types - sharpness, on-off action, as
   well as changes to new occupations.

Psychological level
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Priorities in interpersonal communication.

   Manifestations of negative personality traits when communication
   distances are large and positive traits at short distances are
   characteristic of involutionary types. The reverse is true for the
   evolutionary types. Left types thus more accommodating in close-range
   communication, while right types are more accommodating at a
   distance.

Features of their inner world.

   Inner world of left types is arranged simpler than that of the right
   types. It contains less controversy and is thus more integrated and
   harmonious. However, such a distribution of psychological "charge" is
   compensated by opposite properties of their environment. Environment
   that surrounds left types is usually complicated and ambiguous. Their
   living conditions are often unstable and unpredictable. Permanently
   residing in zones of conflict and frequent changes in priorities does
   not deter left types, but conversely, it is their preferred
   environment. Right types can normally exist only if their environment
   is simple and unambiguous and prevents sudden changes.

In my opinion, the psychology of left and right types differs in level
of development and orientation with respect to conscious and
unconscious.

Right types have a better developed conscious framework, greater
complexity of mental processes, thoughts, behavior, and more
complexities in their social rituals. They focus on maintenance of
reputation, which determines the particular significance of right type
in complicated hierarchies of modern society. Right types are, however,
more internally conflicted with their unconscious, which often leads to
discharge of the conflict in a way of various psycho-social excesses
that involve large numbers of other right types, as well as to cooling
of the relationships between right types at close psychological
distances.

Left types have a simple and natural conscious framework. They are more
in harmony with the unconscious than right types. Left types behavior
and thinking is more simple and natural. This makes left type generally
more harmonious and content, as well as prone to avoid participation in
mass movements and excesses. However, this simplicity in conscious
framework makes left type less adaptable to the complexities of life in
modern society, to elaborate collective rituals in professional and
public spheres. They compensate for this by adapting well to coordinated
work within small groups.

Intellectual level
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

   **Left types start from the general and progress towards the
   specifics. Right types start from specifics and progress towards the
   general. These two information paths in formal logic are called
   deduction and induction.** These differences in thinking have a
   visible impact on activities such as reading books, writing articles,
   and public speaking. Involutionary types have a tendency to start
   reading books from the end, first inspect the overall findings, end
   results, and only then to trace how the author arrived there. When an
   involutionary type states his thoughts, he is more comfortable doing
   the presentation by first stating the general principles and
   resulting patterns, and only after proceeding to explain details and
   give specific examples. Evolutionary type is inclined to perceive and
   present information exactly in the opposite way. He is more
   comfortable reading a book at it was written without jumping ahead.
   When evolutionary type acts, he first provides details, starting
   axioms, evidence at hand, and only then, towards the end he
   formulates final conclusions.

**Right types think in greater complexity and detail, which makes their
thought process slower and more energy-consuming.** However, their
intellectual products are well thought out in intended direction. The
strength of the right thinking is in its artificial refinement and
thoroughness. The disadvantage is the slower processing, delayed
delivery of results, as well as "tunnel vision" - while studying the
details of a particular case, right types can lose sight of the broader
perspective. Voluminous supercomplex writing and productions are result
of the focused work of the minds of right types, which are the engines
of mental progress. They spend a lot of effort on this process, arriving
at excellent results.

**Left types are inclined to simplify the information.** Their thinking
is quick and provides a raw product that needs further refinement. The
strength of left thinking is in the natural simplicity, the generalized
full-scope view of the problems and quick delivery of results. Its
disadvantages are excessive conciseness of presentation of information,
as well as inattention to details that may be crucial to the case.
Thinking of the best representatives of the left types has brilliant
simplicity, completeness and clarity. It winds information, grasping the
main aspects of understanding and controlling the situation, achieving
rapid results with simple methods.

Social level
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Natural-artificial.

   At this level, the difference between left and right types can be
   described simply as "nature - civilization." Nature is uncivilized:
   it contains no state-honored traditions, laws, philosophies and
   religions. Civilization is unnatural: morality professed by a
   civilized society, cannot be derived from laws of nature that
   essentially boil down to a struggle for existence. Left types are
   closer to living and modeling such natural existence, and right type
   - to civilized society.

Working in groups.

   Due to the fact that involutors communicate negatively on foreign
   territory, it is difficult for them to unite into larger groups.
   Negative attitude toward strangers does not allow them to form larger
   groups. They have a tendency to work in small groups where there is
   room for informal communication. By contrast, evolutionary types work
   well in organized large groups. However, working in small groups is
   difficult to them because upon closing distance in communication they
   become more intolerant.

Right type thus gravitate to work in large organizations in which
positive relationships with employees of other departments and divisions
can offset the tougher close range communication within their small
group, as well as frequent dissonance and competition between
departments. Left types gravitate towards well-coordinated work within
smaller groups where work and communication are not strictly regulated,
where working hours are flexible and there is greater freedom of
self-expression.

The differences in underlying psychology and cognitive styles of right
and left types often lead to misunderstandings and conflicts, where the
trend is to displace left types from convoluted large organizations and
public management at the highest level. In my opinion, left types only
land into such positions when a need to simplify and reorganize arises,
when overly elaborate processes start costing in efficiency of
organizations and society.


Distinguishing characteristics of right and left directions of progress and their settings within the structure of society
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Right-progress reflects the movement in society at macro-level, at the
level of large organizations. It is characterized by smooth step-wise
development, a selection from numerous mutations and innovations those
most suitable for mass replication for the whole of society. Of the many
models of development right types mark the most prominent ones,
politically reinforce them and put them into consistently
implementation. Right progress reflects the cyclical movement from 1st
to 4th quadra as the main program of the evolutionary development of
society. Left progress, to the contrary, is the movement within society
at micro levels. It is characterized by abrupt, uneven development,
innovations and permutations. Left progress is the movement from 4th to
1st quadra. It serves as an internal correction of the evolutionary
development. If the process of involution knocks the system out of
equilibrium, there exists a risk of damage from overcharging. To counter
this, society includes a powerful stabilizing mechanism of evolution.

In society the evolutionary vector is the dominant one. In terms of
socionic this can be explained by the following.

First, the differences between left and right types as was discussed
above. Right types are directed at work in large groups, left types - in
small groups. Due to their orientation at complexity of thought and
behavior in social rituals, right types perform better than left types
at management of overly-complicated processes of social management at
the macro level.

Second, V.V. Gulenko expressed empirically supported idea of the
existence of central (2nd and 3rd quadra) and peripheral (1st and 4th
quadra) types, according to which society is dominated by the central
types. Indeed, according to our observations, these types are the most
common and visible ones on the social level, while presence of left
types in comparison is much lower.

The dominance of right types can be explained not only simply by
superiority in their numbers and complexity of their organizations. V.V.
Gulenko has also proposed an idea about the presence of a type that gets
pushes out within the struggle for existence between the central quadra
(2nd and 3rd) - the left introverted type. In the 2nd quadra, the
displaced type is the IEI, who is a peacemaker and harmonizer within its
militant quadra. In the third quadra, the displaced type is the ESI, who
restrains the pragmatic onslaughts of others types of its quadra by
moral objections. Thus in the composition of the right types the central
types are fully represented - EIE, LSI, SEE, ILI. Among left types the
central "combat" group is represented only by two types - SLE and LIE,
while both left introvert types become displaced.

This tendency for right types to predominate was also noticed by other
authors. A.V. Boukalov in his work on the relations between perinatal
Grof matrices and worldviews of the types ("On the mechanism of
formation of functions of informational metabolism in the process of
formation of an individual") writes that within the context of the
political struggle in society the political arena is often held by two
types, EIE and LSI, the struggle of which eventually ends with the
victory of the LSI.

   Essentially (and this is a global problem of socio-political value)
   this raises a question of what kind of people are suited for
   high-ranking positions. There is no doubt that when it comes to
   imposing limits, coercion against the individual, even if for "his
   own good," the administrative system and "correctional camps," we are
   talking about the representatives of the ? quadra. It is important to
   know that in a group composed from competing representatives of this
   quadra, the dyad that wins is LSI-EIE, eliminating the corrective
   dyad SLE-IEI. Within this dyad the winner is LSI, a type prone to
   dictatorship. To this form of control another type is also
   predisposed, LII, but in another form.

This is exactly what we can see happening on the political scene of the
modern Ukraine. Viktor Yushchenko (LSI) and Yulia Tymoshenko (EIE) are
now the leaders of political Olympus, as the left types such as
Yanukovych and Poroshenko (both SLEs) were gradually displaced from
central positions as soon as the crisis stage was over. This I see
mostly as the result of left type being orientated at operating in small
groups, as well as the simplicity of their thought and behavior and
unwillingness to delve deeply and respond adequately to the complexities
of political life, and inability to effectively manage complicated
processes of social development in the quiet periods of history.

However, left types are called to the social Olympus in times of crisis,
when it is necessary to reform the overly complicated and ineffective
processes or in the face of danger in times of war. This is why Vladimir
Gulenko in the theory of ekfinal groups called the central left types
the group of reforms, the right central - the group of repair of social
processes.

Social and psychological meaning of relations of request and revision [benefit and supervision]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The founder of Socionics, Aushra Augustinavichiute, introduced the
concept of social progress as a key concept and the very essence of
functioning of the collective mind of the socion, which forms a complete
over-organism or a unit of social intelligence, being the highest form
of organization of psychic energy, the energy unit of humanity, which
consists of the sum of the sixteen Socionics types and relations between
them. Socionics also generates according to Aushra new branch of social
science - "sotsiomatika", that examines the social structure of society
and intertype relationships.

According to Aushra, "every type of intelligence does its part of the
social request - the social function of its own intellect." This
socioprogress she relates to the transfer of the momentum within the
rings of benefit from benefactor to the beneficiary, as well as with the
control of the fulfillment of the request by relations of revision.

Beneficiary perceives the momentum of the benefactor and strives to
solve the problems that were formulated by the benefactor. Revisor
impedes the revisee and the benefactor from getting close, making the
revisee realize this request in society rather than in dyad of request.
Relations of benefit are described by Aushra as mysterious relation of
hypnosis while revision - as terrible relations of psychological
repression. V.V. Gulenko has formulated the essence of request and
revision relations differently: social request as a transfer of the
energy pulse or inclusion into work and revision as information transfer
and shutdown from work, the correction by revisor of the behavior of
revisee.

The essential social value of relations of benefit/request lies in
activating effect that the benefactor has on beneficiary, a forced
inclusion in socially meaningful activities and in informational
imitation by the benefactor of the beneficiary that allows for the
quadra progression to happen.

The essential social value of relations of revision/supervision lies on
one hand in the correction of the fulfillment of the request by the
supervisor and in suppression of inadequate behavior of the revisee, and
on the other hand in assisting supervisee in resolving problems that are
too difficult to him to solve.

In my opinion, the informational and energy transactions should both be
considered.

Social request provides the energy transfer from the benefactor to the
beneficiary, unilateral unconscious programming by the benefactor of the
activities of the beneficiary, including him into work. Benefactor
creatively and suggestively influences the beneficiary (transaction
between functions 2 and 5), pushing on the behaviorist energy lever that
works according to the principle of "stimulus-response" (transaction
between 1st and 8th functions), thus activating work of the vital ring
of beneficiary. Beneficiary automatically tries to realize the
programming that was passed onto him by benefactor.

While energy moves from benefactor to beneficiary, information travels
in the opposite direction. Benefactor inspects abilities of the
beneficiary and in some time tries to imitate them. Beneficiary thus
activates the benefactor (transaction from 1st to 6th function)
transferring over the information about creative methods of action
(transaction f2->f7) that extend and widen narrow standards of the
benefactor in the aspects of 7th function, as well as give a simpler but
more adequate program of behavior for benefactor's 4th function
(transaction from 7th to 4th function).

Thus in the ring of benefit there is one-sided automatic unwinding of
the energy on account of benefactor exerting influence on behavioral
lever of beneficiary f1->f8 (in quasi-identical relations this energy
unwinding is mutual, the request is sent both ways).

Revision or social control transfers information from revisor to
revisee, enabling the movement of information along the mental ring.
Revisor transfers information from 1st function to the weak 4th function
of revisee, and receives information reinforcement of its 2nd function.
At the same time the energy is switched off, which manifests as
demoralization of the revisee as revisor shuts off the revisee (f1->f8).
Revisee unconsciously influences the revisor (f8->f5) and offers an
acceptable program (f7->f8). Revisor from one hand corrects inadequate
behavior of the revisee and from the other hand offers support in
revisee's inadequate 4th function.

Thus in rings of benefit and revision the energy and information are
moving in different directions. In relations of request/benefit, the
energy is transferred from beneficiary to benefactor, forming a chain of
one-sided activation, while in relations of revision the energy moves
from revisee to revisor, forming one-sided chain of protection, when
revisor catches the flag that the revisee is no longer able to carry
forward.

At the same time, information is moving in the opposite direction. In
relations of request/benefit, information moves from beneficiary to the
benefator. In this sense, what occurs is called "reverse request" (term
introduced by Gulenko), the main social attribute of which is imitation,
due to which the values of one quadra are transferred to the next one
within society or organization. For example, an EIE benefactor will
imitate an SEE beneficiary, losing its ideological angle and becoming
infused by values of freedom and prosperity. LSI benefactor will imitate
an ILI, become more cautious, skeptical, pragmatic.

The main part of the transaction of "reverse request" is in transfer
from 2nd to 7th function. Beneficiary creatively shows the benefactor
examples of new kind of behavior. 7th function is normative, it accrues
the knowledge and know-how of others, adjusts values, it also possesses
dual type of thinking.

In relations of revision, information flows from revisor to revisee
(transfer from f2->f1 and f1->f4). This information is received well by
the revisee due to common style of thinking and is transferred further
down the revision chain.

Energy exchange in relations of revision flows smoothly when there is
one-sided chain of assistance. However, if one tracks the direction of
assistance that was provided then the concept of "reverse revision"
should be considered. In this type of revision, revisee incites revisor
into action by demonstrating its weakness. Revisor then grabs the flag
from his hands and helps revisee solve the problems pertaining to his
4th function.

It can be said, that introduction of new quadra values (movement of
information) happens in the direction of the psychologically weaker dyad
with the energy support of the benefactor and the informational
correction of the revisor. Psychologically stronger dyad as if passes on
the torch of new goals and values to the psychologically weaker
recipients. However on energetic plane, the reverse exchange happens
when the stronger dyad replaces the weak dyad when it encounters
unsolvable problems. It must be taken into account that on social level
it is the central quadras that dominate (2nd and 3rd) while peripheral
quadras often perform supporting roles.

Social mission of right and left sociotypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Lets now consider the role, the "mission", of each type in development
of society. According to the founder of Socionics A. Avgustinavichuete:
"every type of IM executes specific social functions."

Left involutionary types produce a variety of solutions to the
challenges of their environment, make leaps forward, and right types
pick up the most valuable innovations and spread them in the society, as
well as stabilize the social system.

Social "missions" of left types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

   **ESE** (Enthusiast)  provides emotional growth, charges people with
   emotional energy, spreads innovative ideas and social practices.

   **LII** (Analyst)  catalyst in basic science, innovator-reorganizer
   of systems. Generates a lot of alternative ideas, creating a
   theoretical model of the future to which we should strive. Initiator
   of "logical" growth, calls for thinking.

   **SLE** (Marshall)  revolutionary in practice, defeats his enemies,
   destroyer of the old systems, creator of the new structures, the
   penetrating power of history.

   **IEI** (Lyric)  the creator of ideal bright future, of a the dream,
   which illuminates the souls of men.

   **LIE** (Entrepreneur)  revolutionary-innovator in business,
   experimenter in applied sciences, discovers new methods, tactics, and
   empirical information.

   **ESI** (Guardian)  opponent of evil, resolute enforcer of moral
   standards, the creator of ethics and moral foundation for new
   successful enterprises

   **IEE** (Advisor)  discoverer of abilities and potential in people,
   guides out of difficult situations, finds capable people who can be
   relied on, seeds humanitarian ideas.

   **SLI** (Craftsman)  creator of simple technologies and methods of
   work, which dramatically increase effectiveness and yield rapid
   results with minimal expenditures of resources and effort.


Social "missions" of right types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

   **ILE** (Seeker)  finds promising ideas and discoveries, contributes
   to their formation and stabilization, elucidates their nature, makes
   them fundamental, derives exact formulas and theories which he
   follows himself and promotes their spread in society.

   **SEI** (Mediator)  softens the atmosphere of excessive competition
   and labor by creating aesthetically pleasing comfortable environment,
   creates an atmosphere for enjoyable interaction.

   **EIE** (Mentor)  perceiving social discontent, enters a group of
   fighters as an ideological leader, spreads ideas of the group to
   larger groups, directs their energy into the course of the struggle,
   in which he exhausts it.

   **LSI** (Inspector)  concludes the reformative actions of Marshall,
   propagates new structures on entire society, stabilizes, regulates,
   establish order and discipline, reinforces the hierarchy of power.

   **SEE** (Politician)  presents as a mouthpiece of influential
   classes and economically oriented groups, leads political bargaining,
   creates political and diplomatic alliances, reconciles warring
   parties, strikes up temporary peace agreements thereby stabilizing
   the political situation in the society.

   **ILI** (Critic)  criticizes brash and imprudent decisions and
   actions, anticipating possible dangers and negative effects, thus
   narrowing the direction of social development into the safest and
   most predictable course.

   **LSE** (Administrator)  becomes a leader under conditions of
   stabilization of new economic relations, picks up and propagates in
   society special technologies to improve the productivity of factory
   type labor, based on conscientious selfless work.
   
   **EII** (Humanist)  harmonizes the psychological climate in a group,
   supports the sprouts of good relations, levels the atmosphere of
   competition, sacrifices progressive dynamics in favor of good stable
   relations.

Profiles of social actions of right and left groups
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These descriptions are cited from work of V.V. Gulenko "On Evolution of
Society" Kiev, 1991.

   *Armorers* - Left introverted types (SLI, LII, ESI, IEI) who tighten
   the spring of socio-progress, they extract the energy needed for
   forward movement and supply it (arm) the follow-up group with
   everything that is needed for a breakthrough.

   *Fighters* - Left extroverted types (IEE, ESE, LIE, SLE), the most
   active, energetic, and determined in terms of finding new potential.
   They provide for a powerful burst in energy that was concentrated by
   the previous group of armorers.

   *Surfacers* - Right extroverted types (ILE, EIE, LSE, SEE) they are
   carried to the top and surf the previous tumultuous wave of social
   progress. They do not extract energy, neither do they carry it, but
   they know how to channel it into the right direction. Among them most
   often one can find preachers of ideologies aimed at explaining mass
   discontent, or politicians that rose to their positions due to their
   skill being able to talk representing the masses, nations or
   particular layers of society.

   *Evacuators* - Right introverts (EII, ILI, LSI, SEI) they dissipate
   the energy of social movements, clear out the territory for future
   events. Their distinctive trait - desire to suppress any emotional
   outbursts, smooth out any critical periods.

Part 2: Progress orientations in business
-----------------------------------------

Distinguishing characteristics of left and right teams
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Qualities of teams of left or right types in many ways are determined by
qualities of left or right sociotypes, but cannot be reduced to these
(antireductionism).

Characteristics of involutionary types and "left" organizations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Thinking of left types, both dynamic synergetic and static holographic,
gravitates towards simplicity, brevity, and expediency. In behavior and
in their decision making, left types are just as expeditious and
oriented at obtaining results quickly. They prefer to work in spurts,
with frequent turns and switches between activities, at times returning
back in order to improve upon their results. Distinct periods of ups and
downs can be seen in their work, periods of rapid expenditure of energy
and resources and subsequent re-accumulation. This is more acceptable
for business practices that are tolerant of uneven activity.

Left types are most accommodating at close distances and more intolerant
of having to work at greater distances, therefore they prefer to work in
small groups and small organizations, where having "soft" relations with
all members of the team is encouraged. In these groups they go by simple
and efficient schemes that are devoid of extraneous complexities. They
are inclined to simplify their activities and involution of information.
Groups composed of left types are distinguished by abundance of energy,
which is freely put to use towards group projects.

The simplicity of activities of left groups and speed with which they
process information makes them flexible and readily responsive to
outside changes. The disadvantages of this kind of simplicity is that
there is certain primitiveness to the group structure and professional
dealings, preference for use of simple methods, tools and technologies,
which sometimes yield mediocre results.

Characteristics of evolutionary types and "right" organizations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Thinking of right types, both dynamic dialectic and static
causal-deterministic, gravitates towards complexity, thoroughness,
attention to detail and therefore requires more time to achieve a
result. Their behavior and decisions are relatively unhurried, focused
on the process, taking into account all the subtleties of the situation.
Teams composed of right types work more smoothly, consistently and
evenly, spending energy and resources in a planned manner, avoiding work
overloads. This is more acceptable to businesses that rely on complex
organization and detailed planning.

Right types are more accommodating at large distances and less so in
proximity. Therefore they tend to work best in large groups and
organizations, where reputation and relative "soft" relations with other
teams is encouraged, but harsher relations are permitted within the
team. Large organizations of right type are characterized by multi-level
hierarchical organizational structure and operating procedures, large
scale operations that require efforts of many people, putting forth the
fruits of collective work.

The disadvantages of such organizations is that they suffer from
excessive formalization and bureaucratization that renders them
inflexible. There is delay in response time to the changing external
environment, repression of creative energy of workers and freedom of
expression. More competitive relations within teams can also lead to
internal competition and intrigues, which undermines their effectiveness
and productivity. [section 5.4 has not been translated]


See also
--------

-  :doc:`On Waves of Aging and Renewal: Progress Orientation in Combination with Jungian Aspects by V. Gulenko <waves_aging>`
-  :doc:`Process/Result dichotomy (aka Evolutionary/Involutionary) <process_result>`
-  :doc:`Gulenko Cognitive Styles <cognitive_styles>`
