On Waves of Aging and Renewal: Progress Orientation in Combination with Jungian Aspects
====================================================================================================

This article was written by :doc:`Victor Gulenko <gulenko>` and
published on December 7th, 1996. To see the original article in Russian
click
`here <http://socionics.kiev.ua/articles/feature-and-group/wave/>`_

The :doc:`Right / Left <process_result>` dichotomy is often referred to
as :doc:`Process / Result <process_result>` or :doc:`Involutionary / Evolutionary <process_result>` in Reinin traits, where "right"
orientation corresponds to Process, Evolution, while "left" orientation
corresponds to Result, Involution.

Foreword: *We wanted to rebuild the world, wanted to do better,* *came
out of humility and through this destroyed ourselves and the world.* -
M.M. Speransky

Two paths of development
------------------------

General philosophical interpretation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In philosophy, the word *development* is taken to mean spiral-like
progression from simple to more complex forms. Two vectors influence the
trajectory of this development. The first vector is a horizontal one. It
leads to cyclical repetition and is based on the internal rhythms of the
system. The second vector is a vertical one. This vector ensures that
there is no stagnation and overcycling within the system. Every turn
stands above the previous one. The rhythm of the progression of these
turns has a probabilistic factor.

Development as ontogenesis is essentially a programmed unwinding of the
existing potential. The Latin word **evolution** in its semantics
represents this path of progress very well, consisting of unwinding,
unpacking, of quantitative growth of the existing embryo.

On the other hand, development as epigenesis is the very birth, the
appearance of qualitatively new forms, sudden outbreak of a new life
[1]. The Latin word **involution** conveys the essence of this process -
it is the folding, the packaging, the build-up of a critical mass of
energy.

Thus, evolution unwinds the spiral of development into a straight line,
while the involution, conversely, winds it back up, thereby creating new
frontiers of growth within the system. If development is imagined not as
a spiral but as a broken line stretching from left to right, then the
break points and the areas that surround them represent epigenesis,
involution.

It is interesting to compare socionic connotation with mathematical
meaning of these terms. The word *evolution* in mathematics denotes the
operation of deriving the root; involution has the reverse influence -
raising to the power. The meaning of these two mathematical operations
closely approaches the interpretation of these two paths of progress in
socionics.

Biological interpretation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Many researchers believe that the fundamental difference between living
matter from the nonliving matter lies in the opposition of left and
right forms or isomers [6, 9]. Right forms or isomers correspond to a
circular, horizontal movement of matter and are responsible for the
evolution of the organism. Left isomers are responsible for the movement
in the vertical plane, thus enabling the process of involution.
Combining the circular movement and the vertical movement creates a
spiral.

In biology there exists experimentally discovered by Charles Darwin law
of natural selection. Mutations give rise to spontaneous changes in
opposite directions, while the mechanisms of adaptation select out
options that are nonviable and reinforce those that give the species
greater survival advantage within its environment.

This fully coincides with two directions of progress in socionics. The
emergence of mutations is the process of involution, while the selection
of most viable changes is evolution.

Mutations play a key role in driving this process of selection, which
guides the development of the species if its environmental conditions
have changed. If the habitat does not change for a long time, then it is
beneficial for the species to suppress mutations, in which case
selection veers to the side of stabilization. This example demonstrates
how closely the two paths of auto-development of systems are intertwined
in real life.

Development as a violation and restoration of homeostasis
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In nature, there exists a tendency for homeostasis, which is the
maintenance of a stable balance between the internal parameters of an
organism. A **sociotype** is exactly such a set of parameters or limits
to the variation of psychological properties of a personality of a
person, which make him or her a homeostatic system.

It is easy to see that the disruption of the homeostasis is the role of
the left types, while its restoration falls on the shoulders of the
right types. Both of these extremes are dangerous on their own. An
absolute victory of one path of progress leads to a certain death, only
the types of these deaths will be different depending on the side that
won.

"Right" death comes from a gradual cooling and fading that occurs from
an old age. "Left" death is of short duration - it comes from the harsh
heat, the saturation of a body with energy, which leads to an explosion.
This type of death can be formulated as a paradox: it comes from an
excess of youth.

In psychology, Freud has uncovered two existing trends: the earning
towards life and towards death. Right types are more prone to suicide
than left types. They simply lack the psychological energy to survive in
difficult conditions and withstand the "scorching" conditions of this
life. Left sociotypes tend to be more optimistic. They do not lose hope
even when they have found themselves in a dead end.

Cybernetic interpretation of the two paths of development
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Our topic is rather directly related such concepts in cybernetics as
positive and negative feedback. The first leads to the immoderate
exponential growth. The second - to stabilization within the limits of
vital parameters. The process of approximation of the steady state
occurs in accordance with the periodic law of extinguishing oscillation.

It is clear that evolution, or the circular development, corresponds to
negative feedback. Thus we will assign a negative sign to "right",
evolutionary types. Right progress represents conservation,
repeatability, a standing wave. It fades gradually over time; thus this
trend is symbolic of gradual deterioration and aging. There is a loss of
energy, but this path accumulates more and more information.

Examples:

-  **ILE** - the same invention is spread and extended to all areas,
   until it becomes too common.
-  **SEI** - promotes relaxation and a slow decay of passions.
-  **EIE** - bursts with violent emotions followed by a retreat and
   philosophizing, turns away from life.
-  **LSI** - brings to automation, formalization, petrification.
-  **SEE** - manipulates with the existing emotions followed by a
   descent into apathy.
-  **ILI** - deactivates by extinguishing initiatives, then slowly sinks
   into contemplation.
-  **LSE** - overworks, exhausts the reserves of manpower through work,
   becomes fixated.
-  **EII** - follows humane ideals, leaving the struggle for survival
   for an artificial world of idealized relations.

Involution, or deflecting component of development, corresponds to
positive feedback. Thus we will assign a plus sign to the "left",
involutionary types. It occurs as a sharp jolt or step change. In other
words, the movement from old to new, rejuvenation, revitalization. It
corresponds to a modulated wave i.e one that deviates from a circular
path due to an influence by some oversystem. Involution coils the
spiral, concentrating the energy needed for a push. This accumulation of
energy is proportional to the loss of information resources. Left types
ensure transition to the next turn of the helix.

Examples:

-  **ESE** - rarely despairs, doesn't fall into depression after making
   mistakes.
-  **LII** - makes systems and structures viable.
-  **SLE** - ensures victory in the most difficult and urgent
   situations.
-  **IEI** - inwardly apprehensive but believes in a positive
   resolution.
-  **LIE** - survives despite rough and adverse conditions.
-  **ESI** - keeps and preserves his individuality even in midst of
   hostile attitude of others.
-  **IEE** - finds new options and opportunities thereby inspiring
   others to try again.
-  **SLI** - skillfully applies his ingenuity in situations of hardship
   and discomfort.

Orientation of progress from four perspectives
----------------------------------------------

Physical level
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

"Left", involutionary types can produce results while relying on poorly
functioning process. They begin from large parts, and leave the smaller
parts for the later. "Right", evolutionary types, on the contrary, are
scrupulous in their work. They skillfully organize processes and
thoroughly work through the material, while taking all the details into
consideration.

The question that is of primary concern to left types is "for what?"
Teleology, as a philosophical doctrine of the end goals of development
reflects precisely the involutionary aspect of progress. The question
that is of primary concern to right types is "from what?" Etiology, as
opposed to teleology, focuses on studying the original causes for
development.

Smooth and balanced development with a fixed goal characterizes the
evolutionary, "right" approach. Involutionary, "left" approach is
uneven: acceleration alternates with deceleration, advances are followed
by retreats. Involution in this manner resembles cross-country running,
where both speed and direction of movement are liable to change.

Psychological level
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Right and left types differ in their approaches to interpersonal
communication.

Manifestations of negative personality traits when communication
distances are large and positive traits at short distances are
characteristic of involutionary, "left" types, while the reverse is true
of "right" types. Left types thus more accommodating during close-range
communication, while right types are more accommodating at a distance.

Inner world of left types is arranged in a simpler manner than that of
right types. It holds less contradictions within it and is thus more
wholesome and harmonious. However, such a distribution of psychological
"charge" in left types is counter-weighed by the properties of their
environment that most often is complicated and ambiguous. The living
conditions of left type are frequently unstable and unpredictable.
Permanently residing in zones of conflict and frequent changes in
priorities does not hamper left types; to the contrary, it is their
preferred conditions for life. Right types can normally exist only if
their environment is simple and unambiguous and prevents sudden changes.

Thus, we can assign plus and minus signs in the following manner. For
"right", evolutionary types, at closer distances in communication we can
assign a plus sign, and at greater distances - a minus sign: -/+. For
"left", involutionary types minus sign can be assigned at closer
distances, while at greater distances they can be assigned a minus sign:
+/-.

Social level
~~~~~~~~~~~~

At this level, the difference between left and right types can be
described simply as "nature - civilization." Nature is uncivilized: it
contains no formally upheld conventions, traditions, philosophies, and
religions. Civilization is not natural: legislative and moral codes
enacted in a civilized society cannot be derived from the laws of
nature, which can be traced down to the struggle for existence. Left
types are closer to living and modeling such natural existence, while
right type are closer to emulating life in a civilized society.

-  **ESE** - natural, simple, artless emotions.
-  **EIE** - artificial, crafted, playacting emotions.

-  **LII** - natural, basic logic; the logic of natural laws.
-  **LSI** - artificial logic, the logic of regulations and decrees
   created and adopted by people.

-  **SLE** - natural strength, which subordinates those who are weaker.
-  **SEE** - artificial strength, which allows to exert influence over
   those who are more powerful.

-  **IEI** - natural sense of time, the course of events unfolding into
   the future.
-  **ILI** - artificial sense of time, the course of events oriented at
   the past.

-  **IEE** - natural ideas, naturally possible prospects.
-  **ILE** - artificial ideas, alternatives of the impossible, of the
   hyperreality.

-  **SLI** - natural sensory experiences and comfort.
-  **SEI** - artificial sensing, created, crafted comfort.

-  **LIE** - natural benefit, attained by personal, individual
   enterprise.
-  **LSE** - artificial benefit, derived through organization of labor.

-  **ESI** - natural relations, dedicated and loving of his own,
   rejecting of outsiders.
-  **EII** - artificial relations, forgives transgressions, treats
   outsiders as his own.

Due to the fact that on foreign territory involutionary "left" types
tend to communicate negatively, it is difficult for them to unite into
large groups. Negative attitude towards strangers does not allow them to
form larger collectives. They are more inclined to work in small groups
where informal communication is possible. By contrast, evolutionary
"right" types work well within larger groups and organizations. Working
in small groups is difficult for them because upon closing of the
distance they become less tolerant in communication.

In practice of psychology, we can find two formats for training courses.
The first type of format aims to unite those attending into larger
groups, which may be dangerous: when crowd gathers a negative charge, a
need for a leader arises. Training courses of the second type allow the
participants to work in small groups, in which case collectivism yields
to individualism.

Intellectual level
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In philosophy, there are two methods of processing of information. The
first method is reification or concretization, when the flow of thought
moves from abstracted, general, vague forms in the direction of greater
specificity and concreteness. The second method is generalization or
abstraction, when the reasoning flows from particulars and specifics,
from distinct bits of information towards conclusions, statements or
themes of greater general or abstracted nature.

**The flow of thought that progresses from broad general overview
towards details and particular parts is the prevalent one for
involutionary "left" types, while reasoning of evolutionary "right"
types flows in the opposite direction - it starts from details and
specifics and progresses towards broader outlook and themes.** In formal
logic, these two approaches are called **deduction** and **induction**,
respectively.

This characteristic has noticeable influences on activities that require
a person to process information, such as reading a book, writing an
article, or delivering a public speech. Involutionary "left" types are
inclined to start reading the conclusion of an article or the end
chapter of a book in order to inspect the summary findings or the final
conclusion, and only then read the rest of the text to trace how the
author arrived there. When an involutionary type states his thoughts, he
is more comfortable doing the presentation by first stating the general
principles, the resulting findings, the discovered patterns, and only
then proceeding to explain the particulars and giving specific examples,
relevant data, or anecdotes.

Evolutionary "right" types are inclined to perceive and present
information in exactly the opposite manner. They are more comfortable
reading an article or a book sequentially, as it was written, without
jumping ahead. When evolutionary type is presenting some material, he
first provides the particulars, the starting axioms, the evidence at
hand, and only then, towards the end of the presentation, he formulates
generalizations and final conclusions.

Let us stop here and examine the word **deductive**. It has multiple
meanings. For example, does Sherlock Holmes, the protagonist of
detective novels of A. Conan Doyle use deductive methods? The answer is
both "yes" and "no". It depends on what is meant by "deductive". No,
because he draws his conclusions building upon many small details and
observations, and this way of making inferences is inductive. Yes,
because in publications deduction usually implies rationality -
discursive method of reasoning barring any free associations. Deductive
reasoning is considered to be the kind of reasoning where from one
statement or proposition, consecutively and basing on explicit set of
axioms, rules, or facts, another statement or proposition is deduced.

Another example of a deduction in the second meaning of this word are
`Aristotelian syllogisms <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syllogism>`_.
These are logical arguments in which from two or more initial
propositions (premises) some concluding statement or proposition is made
by means of a set logical rules. Classical example of such deductive
reasoning: "All men are mortal. Plato is a man. Therefore, Plato is
mortal."

This is an example of "right", correct logic. It is appropriate in
jurisprudence, in conducting investigations, in management of
governments, etc. In natural life, where many "left" involutionary
phenomena can be encountered, such syllogisms are of little help.


We speak in different languages
-------------------------------

Process and Result types have difficulty having constructive exchanges
of information. Their differing preferred modes of information exchange
are one of the sources of misunderstandings in social interaction; these
differences create an informational barrier between left and right
types. How does this occur?

Communicative transactions are complementary between types on the same
side of socioprogess. This means that one's communication will be
received adequately: to a question an answer will be provided, any idea
that has been proposed will be either be developed further or receive a
critique. When two types from different sides of socioprogress interact,
there is a tendency to answer a question with a question, or to respond
to one assertion with another assertion that has little relevance to the
first one. Types from different rings of socioprogress seemingly develop
the same idea in different ways. Thus, in exchanges of left and right
types many orthogonal translations arise in their communication.

Manifestations of negative personality traits at large distances and
positive traits at short distances are characteristic in communication
of involutionary, left types, while the reverse is true of evolutionary,
right types. Left types are thus more accommodating in close-range
communication, while right types are more accommodating at increased
distances. If a person of right, process type talks amiably on the phone
with a stranger, for his left, result type partner this seems surprising
because he would have done the opposite and been less welcoming in his
manners in this situation. These differences become evident when two
people of different Process/Result orientation close the distance, such
as when they get married. Suddenly they find out that the partner who
was seeking intimacy has become more critical and aloof, while the other
partner who seemed more estranged initially is more receptive and
bolder. In this situation a question may rise for both of them: "Am I
being misled?"

Here is one such interesting historical example. Ivan the Terrible, as
documented chroniclers, demonstrated right type style of relating. If a
person close to him was being nice and accommodating, this caused his
suspicions and made him question the sincerity of the person. He could
accept accommodating behavior only after coercion.

Left type, to the contrary, would suspect that something is wrong if
someone treated him emphatically in a cold manner. If you are close to
me then why are you so unfriendly and aloof? Perhaps you are only
pretending that you're voluntarily staying with me?

Right and left types also differ in how they engage in scientific
development. Right type of researcher will carefully collect facts about
some problem that is of concern, processes them, derive a system, and
formulate the resulting findings. Such path of formal or "correct"
research meets the academic requirements for science. Unfortunately the
probability of obtaining fundamentally new knowledge in this way is low.
Left "informal" science is organized quite differently. It is based on
putting forward hypotheses and schemes of a general nature that attempt
to explain the nature of phenomenon that is under investigation in an
informal setting without much consideration of accepted academic canons.
Then the hypothesis or crude scheme is compared to the actual
phenomenon. If it works, then it is accepted as a working model and made
to undergo further revision. If the hypothesis proves to be unsuitable,
then it is simply discarded as unreasonable. It is best when two-three
models are developed side-by-side by "left" methods, and as a result of
competition the one that is most viable wins.

Most of the results of socionics have been derived by left methods. It
is understandable that the right formal academic science treats
socionics with much skepticism. Socionics offers the finished product,
but where is the process of lengthy and detailed research and studies?
The solution of this problem is, of course, supplementing the quick but
unreliable left approach to knowledge with the knowledge and research of
the right approach - which is the only one that earns credibility in
formal circles.

Orientation within the rings of progress is one of the most fundamental
difference between people, as well as between male and female traits in
biology.

Male and female as general biological categories have been thoroughly
analyzed in past in work of Geodakyan. From this analysis it follows
that behavior which is described as a search as search, capture, change,
corresponds to male origin, while behavior that corresponds to
consolidation, preservation, stabilization, corresponds to female
origins. The middle of this distribution is held by women, while men
tend to fall as outliers away from the center. For example, in school
boys are more prone to misbehave and be disorganized, but some achieve
very high results. Girls are more compliant and organized, while their
performance gravitates towards average. These processes are very similar
to the progress of rings of evolution (feminine origin) and involution
(masculine origin).

The situation is quite similar among adults. Men social groups are
together based on power, but internally they are brought together by
friendship. Women's groups at first glance seem more unified and
empathetic, but inwardly they are permeated by a negative emotional
field.

When right and left types communicate, they keep each other under
certain stain. Communication between them is more energetic rather than
informational in its nature. This type of communication does not relax
but, to the contrary, they activate one another.

An example: a pair consisting of a right type and a left type returns
home from a social event. The left partner softens, while the right
partner becomes harder and starts looking for flaws. The left partner in
a joking manner notices that the light was left on in the kitchen. Right
partner is outraged by this comment, since she is feeling very tired
after putting on the best face the whole evening. Left partner is
puzzled as to why he was so misunderstood. It doesn't occur to him how
could anyone arrive at such a conclusion.

The right and left orientation has a significant impact on the exchange
of information, possibly as much as any of the Jungian traits. Conflicts
can arise on the ground of information distortion that occurs between
left and right types.

For example, often misunderstandings between extraverts and introverts
are attributed to the fact that the former prefer to think out loud
while the later prefer to think over their actions to themselves.
However, left-right orientation has a significant effect on
communication of introverts and extraverts. Right types gravitate more
towards lengthy debates, discussions, and verbal clarifications. In
relationships, they prefer talking out their problems. Left types are
much less reliant on verbal communication. They trust words less than
concrete actions. In this respect, left types are more masculine in
nature than right types.

The cause of misunderstanding between sensing and intuitive types is
often said to be that sensing types focus on details while intuitive
types are likely to omit them. However, this isn't so. Attention to
detail is characteristic of right types while left "result" types see
the end result. Details are of much less importance to the left types
who see an overall vision, a generalized picture of a problem or a
situation.

Misunderstanding between logical and ethical types is attributes to
emotional callousness of the former and heightened sensitivity of the
later. Within the left-right dichotomy, responsiveness and heightened
sensitivity are characteristic of right types. Left types suffer less
from compounded problems and more calmly endure through disagreements
than right types. Freud's theory of repressed aggression in reality
works only for evolutionary types.

Miscommunication between rational and irrational types are said to be
based on the different levels of categorization, where rationals are
described as more emphatic and assertive in decision-making, while
irrationals are said to waver and put off making a decision until later.
According to left-right dichotomy, right types are more inclined to make
firm categorical judgments while left types aren't not directed at any
solid goal. Left, involutionary types more easily change their path
because they are more adept at controlling their internal stimuli. Firm
and categorical attitudes awaken in them only in extreme situations.

**Summary of trait correlations:**

-  Left types: sensing, logic, extraversion, irrationality
-  Right types: intuition, ethics, introversion, rationality

.. _project-groups:

Groupings
---------

Project groups
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Projection is attribution by the subject of own properties and states to
external objects. Projection requires, first of all, understanding of
the problem and setting of the goals. Compilation of projects as the
next step in this process means development of course of action.

In practical psychology there are so-called projective tests that are
usually made up of pictures. Traits that are most projective are
intuition and sensing as well as left-ness and right-ness. Intuition
shows itself in the measure of unconventionality of the picture of the
subject, while right process manifests itself in selection of important
details.

-  **Left + intuition** = general results (emotivism)
-  **Left + sensing** = concrete results (constructivism)
-  **Right + intuition** = ideational processes (constructivism)
-  **Right + sensing** = concrete processes (emotivism)

**Right sensing types: SEE, SEI, LSE, LSI - groups of concrete
processes**

The most detail-oriented types who often have a superior ability in
precise handwork. Such orientation leads them to assimilate information
in small doses, as if in form of crumbs. The group includes managers and
socialites who concern for the good of specific individuals. Their style
of management is socially-oriented. The nature of this group carries
elements of social justice and charity. SEI and LSE due to their innate
nurturing capacity provide social assistance directly, while SEE and LSI
promote and control charitable donations, subsidies and scarce
resources.

**Left intuitive types: LIE, LII, IEE, IEI - group of general results**

This group is a complete opposite of the previous group. These types are
the most "coarse" in their approach to information - they assimilate it
in large blocks and are averse to getting into details. The style of
this group are projects of training and education. The junction of
scientism and humanitarianism. Approximation is characteristic of these
types - sequential approach from a vague contour to a more specific
result.

LIE and IEI pick out ripe but easy problems that can be quickly solved
with elements of play and optimism. IEE and LII are inclined to take on
complicated, difficult problems that may require changes at level of
foundation.

**Right intuitives: ILE, ILI, EIE, EII - group of ideational processes**

This group carries out translation of specific observations into overall
theory. Generalists and synthesists. This group is inclined towards
philosophical and religious conceptions. Often they have goals of
synthesizing religion and science, rationalism and mysticism. Among
their favorite topics are bioenergetics and extrasensory perception.
This group works on the crossroads of scientism and humanitarianism.

EIE and ILI are inclined to set unreal, impossible, idealized goals. ILE
and EII gravitate more towards theories that have a chance of being
implemented.

**Left sensing types: ESE, ESI, SLI, SLE - group of concrete results**

This group carries out implementation of generalized plans into
something concrete. They never wait long and are only interested in
projects that can be quickly implemented. They specialize in
construction and habitation. They work on the interface of societal and
managerial issues.

ESE and SLI create comfortable conditions. SLE and ESI organize and
protect newly created "oasis".

Implementation groups
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Jung's dichotomy Logic-Ethics describes, on the one hand, the rational
side of actions, the systematic work to promote innovation, and, on the
other hand, the feminine and masculine origins in human psychology.
Implementing, introducing, forcing through is the male role, while
developing the right conditions, assimilating, stabilizing in the
society as a whole is the female role.

-  **Left process + Logic** = SLE, SLI, LII, LIE (strategy)
-  **Left process + Ethics** = IEI, IEE, ESE, ESI (tactics)
-  **Right process + Logic** = LSE, LSI, ILI, ILE (tactics)
-  **Right process + Ethics** = EII, EIE, SEE, SEI (strategy)

**Left logical types: SLE, SLI, LII, LIE - most masculine types, left
process and logical disposition are united within them**

Act bravely without looking back. Their field of activity lies at the
junction of management and scientism. Localized introduction of
promising ideas and developments into production. This results in the
greatest disruption of homeostasis.

SLE and LIE are the best promoters i.e. managers of risky projects. SLI
and LII are effective in the development of technological support.

**Right ethical types: EII, EIE, SEE, SEI - most feminine types, right
process and ethical disposition are united within them**

Work to maintain established social customs, or if they are programmed
for something else, try to implement and stabilize new customs. Operate
at the intersection of social and humanitarian spheres - mass ideology,
advertising companies, show business.

SEE and EIE are advertisers, propagandists, entertainers, show agents.
EII and SEI prompt movement towards new stereotypes.

**Left ethical types: IEI, IEE, ESE, ESI - intermediary types,
transition of masculine to feminine, still masculine origins predominate
in them**

Their spheres of activity are humanitarian and social. They undermine
and destroy that which is routine and established, may take on
traditionally male responsibilities. They bring localized focused
implementation of humanitarian ideas. From large groups they transfer to
small teams.

ESE and IEE are enthusiasts and inspirers, shaking the foundations of
the humdrum of life. IEI and ESI serve as internal motivators, deeply
penetrating into the psyche.

**Right logical types: LSE, LSI, ILI, ILE - intermediary types,
transition from feminine to masculine, still feminine origins
predominate in them**

Main focus on this group is the junction of management and scientism,
generalization of the practical experience in management. These types
are inventors, rationalizers, creators of laws. They enable mass
implementation of technologies.

ILE and LSE make good inventors and innovators. ILI and LSI finalizers
and explotationists.

In real life ideals of femininity and masculinity gravitate towards the
center. Extremely feminine manifestation (EII) as well as extremely
masculine (SLE) are not considered harmonious.

Stress tolerance of the groups
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Left and right types differ in their tolerance for stress. Certainty and
clarity of the situation is favorable for the Rational and Right
(:doc:`Process <process_result>`) types. Vagueness, potential for
development of some events gives the advantages to

-  **Left (Result) + Rationality** = mobilized by stress (democratic)
-  **Left (Result) + Irrationality** = resistant to stress
   (aristocratic)
-  **Right (Process) + Rationality** = vulnerable to stress
   (aristocratic)
-  **Right (Process) + Irrationality** = frozen by stress (democratic)

**Right (Process) rational types: EIE, EII, LSE, LSI - vulnerable to
stress**

This groups is the most unstable in conditions of prolonged stress. They
are monolithic, but fragile. When they stick together they can
successfully oppose hardships but separately they are easily scattered
and taken out as their resistance drops sharply. In stressful conditions
they fare worse than the other types, especially if stress is of
unexpected in nature. Despite their external stoicism, they always have
poorly protected and vulnerable points and a need for a solid
foundation. If this foundation is removed, they lose any resistance to
stress they may have had. Stress threatens these types with challenging
doubts and in the end leads them to break internally ("giants with feet
of clay"). The defining element for their rational temperament is
"monolithicism".

Taking into account that rationality is related to the orientation in
time (planning, order) as well as to speech as communication forms, and
that the right progress is much more rational than the left in nature,
we conclude that this group of types is strongly dependent on the time
factor and verbal signals.

In dealing with these types one can observe that they have as if anchors
in time, easily developed habits to do this or that action at specific
points in time. Their second dependency is related to the speech stream.
EIE and LSI, for example, need a continuous supply of signals to their
auditory system.

**Left (Result) irrational types: SLE, IEI, SLI, IEE - resistant to
stress**

These types are elastic, springy. They are the most stress-resistant
types which show resilience against immediate stress loads. Their
advantage is that they perform well in extreme situations. They are
mobilized by unexpected changes in situations  this gives them a new
drive. Ability to work effectively in stressful environments adds a new
trait to their temperament  "elasticity". SLE and IEI maneuver and
evade sudden blows. SLI and IEE wait the storm out in a safe location.

These types have anchors in space - developed habits to do this or that
actions in a certain location. For SLEs this is often their home, their
territory. For SLIs this is their workplace where he feels relaxed and
emboldened.

**Right (Process) irrational types: ILE, SEI, ILI, SEE - halted, frozen
by stress**

These types try to avoid stress. They are viscous. Their communicative
environment is similar to a glue-like mass. They have a tendency to lose
their resistance to stress over time  at first they react vigorously to
a stimulus, but then subside. These types are able to resist stress for
quite some time, but with each new wave of stress their strengths
dissipate and they change their method of resistance to withdrawal,
interiorizing their worries and anxieties. This adds a unique trait to
their temperament  "viscosity".

These types like the irrational types are more inclined to develop
habits that are anchored in space. However due to their right-ness they
emphasize such anchors less. Significant to them are kinesthetic
sensations and reflexes, touch, smell, taste.

**Left (Result) rational types: ESE, LII, ESI, LIE - mobilized, trained
by stress**

These types easily withstand small amounts of stress. They are stopped
only by very fundamental shocks and even then only for a short while.
Life is constantly training these types, making them more hardened (ESE,
LIE) or more tolerant (ESI, LII). This is especially evident with the
optimists LIE and ESE, who may find themselves restarting their lives
from complete zero. They are as if holding light wireframe structures
inside them. An additional component to the temperament of these types -
"crystalinity".

How do these types build anchors? To develop a stable habit a single tie
to a specific moment in time is not enough for them. For additional
stability they use visual anchors. These types are convinced not only by
orderly process of events in time, but also by visual signals. ESE and
ESI for example when they see disorder or an unkempt, sick person take
measures immediately. LII and LIE start acting if they see signals of
emotional response.

Groups of Inflation or Rings of Benefit
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These groups are demonstratively of energetic character. Latin word
iflatio means "bulging, swelling". With the use of these groups, socion
is filled with energy. This is why these groups are unstable,
short-lived. They overfill quickly if there isn't an outside force
capable of containing the spill of energy.

Mechanism of relations of social order (benefit) has a lot in common
with the act of hypnosis - the act of benefactor on the subconscious of
the beneficiary. Energy is transferred directly only if benefactor
(sender) is able to somehow relax the beneficiary (receiver) and
predispose him to the benefactor.

With consciously critical attitude on the part of the beneficiary, the
energy impulse is not transmitted. It is either blocked or even
reversed, bringing into effect reverse order - a destructive process
when emotional get heated causing a breakdown in the system. Information
in this system undergoes inflation - it is devalued if not put into
circulation immediately.

The basis of the differences between inflation (benefit) rings lies in
the way energy and information get used. Energy corresponds to
extraversion, but also left progress. Similarly, information is tied
with introversion, but also with the right progress.

-  **Left + Asking** = recombinators, generators of information
   (introversion)
-  **Left + Declaring** = transformators, energy carriers (extraversion)
-  **Right + Asking** = combinators, generators of energy (extraversion)
-  **Right + Declaring** = restorators, accumulators of information
   (introversion)

**Left extraverts: SLE, IEE, LIE, ESE - energy carriers**

These types are the most saturated with energy in the socion. They
suffer from lack of fundamentally new information. Energizers of small
groups. To be good at management and coordination, they have to break up
large groups into small groups and then control these smaller groups.

SLE and ESE solve concrete, immediate problems. IEE and LIE unite on
basis of romanticism, they are captivated by more daring ideas.

**Right introverts: LSI, EII, ILI, SEI - accumulators of information**

ILI accumulates scientific or philosophical information, LSI accumulates
operational or managerial information (both of these types make for the
best collectors), EII - humanitarian information, SEI - social
information (prices, services, events and holidays). They suffer from
lack of energy. Specialize in informatics of large groups.

LSI and SEI engage in solving immediate concrete problems at work or at
home. ILI and EII cooperate on basis of philosophical, scientific, and
spiritual topics.

**Left introverts: IEI, SLI, ESI, LII - generators of information**

These types translate energy into information. They function as
stabilizers in socion. Suffer from weak ability to energetically impact
their environment. They specialize in informatics of small groups and
feel good in small groups of similar-minded individuals.

IEI and LII capable of uniting a small group on the basis of some novel
interesting information. SLI and ESI engage in solving problems relating
to survival and well-being.

**Right extroverts: EIE, LSE, SEE, ILE - energy generators**

These types translate information into energy. They bring about energy
processes in their environment. EIE and SEE with their words and actions
evoke strong emotional reactions in others (for this reason they also
make for the best actors).

They specialize in energetics of large groups and for this reason
realize themselves in such conditions. They have a tendency to unite
small groups into larger groups. These are the most inflationary types,
that start up energy chain reactions in the society.

ILE and EIE are innovators and fighters for an idea. SEE and LSE draw in
people for collective effects.

Quadral structure of the socion
-------------------------------

There are many possible configurations in socion, depending on which
internal structure of small groups it operates. There exists a very
large number of such structures. Only a few of these have been examined:
temperamental-installational, perceptual-communicative,
stimulative-argumentative [8].

On the other hand, there exist functionally complete small groups and,
above all, the quadra. Complementary to the quadra are rings of benefit.
Lets recall that in each quadra there are four fixed roles - Gatekeeper,
Culminator, Stabilizer, Finalist. Within each quadra, representatives of
each ring of benefit play the same role. Intersection of quadra and
rings of benefit (inflationary rings) give yet another structure of
socion.

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :stub-columns: 1

    * - Request/Quadra
      - Gatekeepers
      - Culminators
      - Stabilizers
      - Finalists
    * - Preparers
      - SEI
      - ILE
      - LII
      - ESE
    * - Creators
      - LSI
      - EIE
      - IEI
      - SLE
    * - Vibrators
      - ILI
      - SEE
      - ESI
      - LIE
    * - Perfectors
      - EII
      - LSE
      - SLI
      - IEE


Due to rings of benefit that accomplish energy transfers, quadra
mobilize each other in such a way that the previous one launches the
following one [7]. This is the mechanism of quadra progression in
historical development.

Groups of progress introduce significant correction to the rational
(ontogenic) course of development, serve as a factor that introduces
disturbances. Thanks to them, in history there is no determinism
(predestination). Events are first accelerated, then slowed down, then
change direction in accordance to the subjective will of individuals,
especially if these individuals are working together in a group with
same progress orientation.

References
----------

#. Brief Encyclopedia of Philosophy. - M., Progress Publishers -
   Encyclopedia, 1994, p. 382.
#. Kroeger, O., Tyuson J., 16 Roads of Love. M., Perseus-Veche-ACT, 1995.
#. Augustinavichiute A. The Theory of Reinin Aspects. 1985.
#. Berne E. Games People Play. Psychology of human relations. M.:
   Progress Publishers, 1988, pp. 20-25.
#. Burlachuk L. F., Morozov S. M. Dictionary of Naukova Dumka. Kiev.
   1989, p. 106.
#. Sonin A. S. Achievement of perfection. Symmetry, asymmetry,
   dissymmetry, antisymmetry. - M.: Knowledge, 1987, p. 150-160.
#. Gulenko V. V. Quadra progression. Silhouettes of time through the
   concession of types. K., 25.07.1995.
#. Gulenko V. V. Typological integrity of the socion. Formation of
   sociotypes on the basis of Jung. K., 04/02/1993.
#. Moiseev N. N. Algorithms of development. - Moscow: Science, 1987.
#. Gulenko V. V. Fractal structure and quadra and socion. K.,
   10/06/1989.

See also
--------

-  :doc:`On the Essence of Vectors of Social Progress by A. Dovgan <vectors_progress>`
-  :doc:`Process/Result dichotomy (aka Evolutionary/Involutionary) <process_result>`
-  :doc:`Gulenko Cognitive Styles <cognitive_styles>`

